doc/man3/flux_kvs_namespace_create.adoc, before:

flux_kvs_namespace_create(3)
============================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_namespace_create, flux_kvs_namespace_remove - create/remove a KVS namespace


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_namespace_create (flux_t *h,
                                           const char *namespace,
                                           int flags);

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_namespace_remove (flux_t *h,
                                           const char *namespace);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_namespace_create()` creates a KVS namespace.  Within a
namespace, users can get/put KVS values completely independent of
other KVS namespaces.

`flux_kvs_namespace_remove()` removes a KVS namespace.

FLAGS
-----

The _flags_ mask is currently unused and should be set to 0.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_namespace_create()` and `flux_kvs_namespace_remove()` return
a `flux_future_t` on success, or NULL on failure with errno set
appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EPROTO::
A request was malformed.

ENOSYS::
The KVS module is not loaded.

EEXIST::
The namespace already exists.

ENOTSUP::
Attempt to remove illegal namespace.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup(3), flux_kvs_commit(3)

Commit message:

common/libkvs: Add owner to namespace create
Modify flux_kvs_namespace_create() to allow caller to specify
an alternate namespace owner.

doc/man3/flux_kvs_namespace_create.adoc, after:

flux_kvs_namespace_create(3)
============================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_namespace_create, flux_kvs_namespace_remove - create/remove a KVS namespace


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_namespace_create (flux_t *h,
                                           const char *namespace,
                                           uint32_t owner,
                                           int flags);

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_namespace_remove (flux_t *h,
                                           const char *namespace);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_namespace_create()` creates a KVS namespace.  Within a
namespace, users can get/put KVS values completely independent of
other KVS namespaces.  An owner of the namespace other than the
instance owner can be chosen by setting _owner_.  Otherwise, _owner_
can be set to FLUX_USERID_UNKNOWN.

`flux_kvs_namespace_remove()` removes a KVS namespace.

FLAGS
-----

The _flags_ mask is currently unused and should be set to 0.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_namespace_create()` and `flux_kvs_namespace_remove()` return
a `flux_future_t` on success, or NULL on failure with errno set
appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EPROTO::
A request was malformed.

ENOSYS::
The KVS module is not loaded.

EEXIST::
The namespace already exists.

ENOTSUP::
Attempt to remove illegal namespace.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup(3), flux_kvs_commit(3)
