doc/man3/flux_log.adoc, before:

flux_log(3)
===========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_log, flux_vlog, flux_log_set_appname, flux_log_set_procid - Log messages to the Flux Message Broker


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

int flux_vlog (flux_t *h, int level, const char *fmt, va_list ap);

int flux_log (flux_t *h, int level, const char *fmt, ...);

void flux_log_set_appname (flux_t *h, const char *s);

void flux_log_set_procid (flux_t *h, const char *s);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_log()` creates RFC 5424 format log messages.  The log messages
are sent to the Flux message broker on 'h' for handling if it is
specified.  If 'h' is NULL, the log message is output to stderr.

The 'level' parameter should be set to one of the syslog(3) severity
levels, which are, in order of decreasing importance:

'LOG_EMERG'::      system is unusable
'LOG_ALERT'::      action must be taken immediately
'LOG_CRIT'::       critical conditions
'LOG_ERR'::        error conditions
'LOG_WARNING'::    warning conditions
'LOG_NOTICE'::     normal, but significant, condition
'LOG_INFO'::       informational message
'LOG_DEBUG'::      debug-level message

In addition, the flag 'FLUX_LOG_CHECK' may be logically ORed with
the 'level' to direct `flux_log()` to wait for a response from the broker
indicating whether the log request was accepted or not.  Otherwise, log
requests are "fire and forget".

When 'h' is specified, log messages are are added to the broker's
circular buffer which can be accessed with flux-dmesg(3).  From there,
a message's disposition is up to the broker's log configuration.

`flux_log_set_procid()` may be used to override the default procid,
which is initialized to the calling process's PID.

`flux_log_set_appname()` may be used to override the default
application name, which is initialized to the value of the '__progname'
symbol (normally the argv[0] program name).

MAPPING TO SYSLOG
-----------------

A Flux log message is formatted as a Flux request with a "raw" payload,
as defined by Flux RFC 3.  The raw payload is formatted according to
Internet RFC 5424.

If the Flux handle 'h' is specified, the following Syslog header
fields are set in a Flux log messages when it is created within
`flux_log()`:

PRI::
Set to the user-specified severity level combined with the facility,
which is hardwired to 'LOG_USER' in Flux log messages.

VERSION::
Set to 1.

TIMESTAMP::
Set to the current UTC wallclock time.

HOSTNAME::
Set to the broker rank associated with 'h'.

APP-NAME::
Set to the user-defined application name, truncated to 48 characters,
excluding terminating NULL.

PROCID::
Set to the PID of the calling process.

MSGID::
Set to the NIL string "-".

The STRUCTURED-DATA portion of the message is empty, and reserved for
future use by Flux.

The MSG portion is post-processed to ensure it contains no NULL's or non-ASCII
characters.  At this time non-ASCII UTF-8 is not supported by `flux_log()`.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_log()` normally returns 0 with no possibility of error.
However, if the 'FLUX_LOG_CHECK' check flag is specified, it may
return -1 with errno set on error.


ERRORS
------

EPERM::
The user does not have permission to log messages to this Flux instance.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-dmesg(1), flux-logger(1),
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424[RFC 5424 The Syslog Protocol]

Commit message:

doc/flux-log(3): drop FLUX_LOG_CHECK doc
Drop the documentation for FLUX_LOG_CHECK,
which is being removed.

doc/man3/flux_log.adoc, after:

flux_log(3)
===========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_log, flux_vlog, flux_log_set_appname, flux_log_set_procid - Log messages to the Flux Message Broker


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

int flux_vlog (flux_t *h, int level, const char *fmt, va_list ap);

int flux_log (flux_t *h, int level, const char *fmt, ...);

void flux_log_set_appname (flux_t *h, const char *s);

void flux_log_set_procid (flux_t *h, const char *s);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_log()` creates RFC 5424 format log messages.  The log messages
are sent to the Flux message broker on 'h' for handling if it is
specified.  If 'h' is NULL, the log message is output to stderr.

The 'level' parameter should be set to one of the syslog(3) severity
levels, which are, in order of decreasing importance:

'LOG_EMERG'::      system is unusable
'LOG_ALERT'::      action must be taken immediately
'LOG_CRIT'::       critical conditions
'LOG_ERR'::        error conditions
'LOG_WARNING'::    warning conditions
'LOG_NOTICE'::     normal, but significant, condition
'LOG_INFO'::       informational message
'LOG_DEBUG'::      debug-level message

When 'h' is specified, log messages are are added to the broker's
circular buffer which can be accessed with flux-dmesg(3).  From there,
a message's disposition is up to the broker's log configuration.

`flux_log_set_procid()` may be used to override the default procid,
which is initialized to the calling process's PID.

`flux_log_set_appname()` may be used to override the default
application name, which is initialized to the value of the '__progname'
symbol (normally the argv[0] program name).

MAPPING TO SYSLOG
-----------------

A Flux log message is formatted as a Flux request with a "raw" payload,
as defined by Flux RFC 3.  The raw payload is formatted according to
Internet RFC 5424.

If the Flux handle 'h' is specified, the following Syslog header
fields are set in a Flux log messages when it is created within
`flux_log()`:

PRI::
Set to the user-specified severity level combined with the facility,
which is hardwired to 'LOG_USER' in Flux log messages.

VERSION::
Set to 1.

TIMESTAMP::
Set to the current UTC wallclock time.

HOSTNAME::
Set to the broker rank associated with 'h'.

APP-NAME::
Set to the user-defined application name, truncated to 48 characters,
excluding terminating NULL.

PROCID::
Set to the PID of the calling process.

MSGID::
Set to the NIL string "-".

The STRUCTURED-DATA portion of the message is empty, and reserved for
future use by Flux.

The MSG portion is post-processed to ensure it contains no NULL's or non-ASCII
characters.  At this time non-ASCII UTF-8 is not supported by `flux_log()`.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_log()` normally returns 0 on success, or -1 if there was
a problem building or sending the log message, with errno set.


ERRORS
------

EPERM::
The user does not have permission to log messages to this Flux instance.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-dmesg(1), flux-logger(1),
https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424[RFC 5424 The Syslog Protocol]
