doc/man3/flux_future_create.adoc, before:

flux_future_create(3)
=====================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_future_create, flux_future_fulfill, flux_future_fulfill_error, flux_future_aux_get, flux_future_aux_set, flux_future_set_flux, flux_future_get_flux - support methods for classes that return futures


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 typedef void (*flux_future_init_f)(flux_future_t *f,
                                    flux_reactor_t *r, void *arg);

 flux_future_t *flux_future_create (flux_future_init_f cb, void *arg);

 void flux_future_fulfill (flux_future_t *f,
                           void *result, flux_free_f free_fn);

 void flux_future_fulfill_error (flux_future_t *f, int errnum);

 void *flux_future_aux_get (flux_future_t *f, const char *name);

 int flux_future_aux_set (flux_future_t *f, const char *name,
                          void *aux, flux_free_f destroy);

 void flux_future_set_reactor (flux_future_t *f, flux_t *h);

 flux_reactor_t *flux_future_get_reactor (flux_future_t *f);

 void flux_future_set_flux (flux_future_t *f, flux_t *h);

 flux_t *flux_future_get_flux (flux_future_t *f);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

See `flux_future_get(3)` for general functions that operate on futures.
This page covers functions primarily used when building classes that
return futures.

A Flux future represents some activity that may be completed with reactor
watchers and/or message handlers.  It is intended to be returned by other
classes as a handle for synchronization and a container for results.
This page describes the future interfaces used by such classes.

A class that returns a future usually provides a creation function
that internally calls `flux_future_create()`, and may provide functions
to access class-specific result(s), that internally call `flux_future_get()`.
The create function internally registers a _flux_future_init_f_
function that is called lazily by the future implementation to perform
class-specific reactor setup, such as installing watchers and message
handlers.

`flux_future_create()` creates a future and registers the class-specific
initialization callback _cb_, and an opaque argument _arg_ that will be
passed to _cb_.  The purpose of the initialization callback is to set up
class-specific watchers on a reactor obtained with `flux_future_get_reactor()`,
or message handlers on a flux_t handle obtained with `flux_future_get_flux()`,
or both.  `flux_future_get_reactor()` and `flux_future_get_flux()` return
different results depending on whether the initialization callback is
triggered by a user calling `flux_future_then()` or `flux_future_wait_for()`.
The function may be triggered in one or both contexts, at most once for each.
The watchers or message handlers must eventually call `flux_future_fulfill()`
or `flux_future_fulfill_error()` to fulfill the future.  See REACTOR CONTEXTS
below for more information.

`flux_future_fulfill()` fulfills the future, assigning an opaque
_result_ value with optional destructor _free_fn_ to the future.
A NULL _result_ is valid and also fulfills the future.  The _result_
is contained within the future and can be accessed with `flux_future_get()`
as needed until the future is destroyed.

`flux_future_fulfill_error()` fulfills the future, assigning an _errnum_
value.  After the future is fulfilled with an error, `flux_future_get()`
will return -1 with errno set to _errnum_.

`flux_future_aux_set()` attaches an object _aux_, with optional destructor
_destroy_, to the future under an optional _name_.  `flux_future_aux_get()`
retrieves an object by _name_.  Destructors are called when the future is
destroyed.  Objects may be stored anonymously under a NULL _name_ to be
scheduled for destruction without the option of retrieval.

`flux_future_set_reactor()` may be used to associate a Flux reactor 
with a future.  The reactor (or a temporary one, depending on the context)
may be retrieved using `flux_future_get_reactor()`.

`flux_future_set_flux()` may be used to associate a Flux broker handle
with a future.  The handle (or a clone associated with a temporary reactor,
depending on the context) may be retrieved using `flux_future_get_flux()`.

Futures may "contain" other futures, to arbitrary depth.  That is, an
init callback may create futures and use their continuations to fulfill
the containing future in the same manner as reactor watchers and message
handlers.


REACTOR CONTEXTS
----------------

Internally, a future can operate in two reactor contexts.  The initialization
callback may be called in either or both contexts, depending on which
synchronization functions are called by the user.  `flux_future_get_reactor()`
and `flux_future_get_flux()` return a result that depends on which context
they are called from.

When the user calls `flux_future_then()`, this triggers a call to the
initialization callback.  The callback would typically call
`flux_future_get_reactor()` and/or `flux_future_get_flux()` to obtain the 
reactor or flux_t handle to be used to set up watchers or message handlers.
In this context, the reactor or flux_t handle are exactly the ones passed
to `flux_future_set_reactor()` and `flux_future_set_flux()`.

When the user calls `flux_future_wait_for()`, this triggers the creation
of a temporary reactor, then a call to the initialization callback.
The temporary reactor allows these functions to wait _only_ for the future's
events, without allowing unrelated watchers registered in the main reactor
to run, which might complicate the application's control flow.  In this
context, `flux_future_get_reactor()` returns the temporary reactor, not
the one passed in with `flux_future_set_reactor()`.  `flux_future_get_flux()`
returns a temporary flux_t handle cloned from the one passed to
`flux_future_set_flux()`, and associated with the temporary reactor.
After the internal reactor returns, any messages unmatched by the dispatcher
on the cloned handle are requeued in the main flux_t handle with
`flux_dispatch_requeue()`.

Since the init callback may be made in either reactor context (at most once
each), and is unaware of which context that is, it should take care when
managing any context-specific state not to overwrite the state from a prior
call.  The ability to attach objects with destructors anonymously to the future
with `flux_future_aux_set()` may be useful for managing the life cycle
of reactor watchers and message handlers created by init callbacks.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_future_create()` returns a future on success.  On error, NULL is
returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_aux_set()` returns zero on success.  On error, -1 is
returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_aux_get()` returns the requested object on success.  On
error, NULL is returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_get_flux()` returns a flux_t handle on success.  On error,
NULL is returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_get_reactor()` returns a flux_reactor_t on success.  On error,
NULL is returned and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EINVAL::
Invalid argument.

ENOENT::
The requested object is not found.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_get(3), flux_clone(3)

Commit message:

libflux/future: Add new flux_future_fatal_error()
New function will allow callers to set a "fatal error" in a
future, an error that overrides all prior future results.

doc/man3/flux_future_create.adoc, after:

flux_future_create(3)
=====================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_future_create, flux_future_fulfill, flux_future_fulfill_error, flux_future_aux_get, flux_future_aux_set, flux_future_set_flux, flux_future_get_flux - support methods for classes that return futures


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 typedef void (*flux_future_init_f)(flux_future_t *f,
                                    flux_reactor_t *r, void *arg);

 flux_future_t *flux_future_create (flux_future_init_f cb, void *arg);

 void flux_future_fulfill (flux_future_t *f,
                           void *result, flux_free_f free_fn);

 void flux_future_fulfill_error (flux_future_t *f, int errnum);

 void flux_future_fatal_error (flux_future_t *f, int errnum);

 void *flux_future_aux_get (flux_future_t *f, const char *name);

 int flux_future_aux_set (flux_future_t *f, const char *name,
                          void *aux, flux_free_f destroy);

 void flux_future_set_reactor (flux_future_t *f, flux_t *h);

 flux_reactor_t *flux_future_get_reactor (flux_future_t *f);

 void flux_future_set_flux (flux_future_t *f, flux_t *h);

 flux_t *flux_future_get_flux (flux_future_t *f);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

See `flux_future_get(3)` for general functions that operate on futures.
This page covers functions primarily used when building classes that
return futures.

A Flux future represents some activity that may be completed with reactor
watchers and/or message handlers.  It is intended to be returned by other
classes as a handle for synchronization and a container for results.
This page describes the future interfaces used by such classes.

A class that returns a future usually provides a creation function
that internally calls `flux_future_create()`, and may provide functions
to access class-specific result(s), that internally call `flux_future_get()`.
The create function internally registers a _flux_future_init_f_
function that is called lazily by the future implementation to perform
class-specific reactor setup, such as installing watchers and message
handlers.

`flux_future_create()` creates a future and registers the
class-specific initialization callback _cb_, and an opaque argument
_arg_ that will be passed to _cb_.  The purpose of the initialization
callback is to set up class-specific watchers on a reactor obtained
with `flux_future_get_reactor()`, or message handlers on a flux_t
handle obtained with `flux_future_get_flux()`, or both.
`flux_future_get_reactor()` and `flux_future_get_flux()` return
different results depending on whether the initialization callback is
triggered by a user calling `flux_future_then()` or
`flux_future_wait_for()`.  The function may be triggered in one or
both contexts, at most once for each.  The watchers or message
handlers must eventually call `flux_future_fulfill()`,
`flux_future_fulfill_error()`, or `flux_future_fatal_error()` to
fulfill the future.  See REACTOR CONTEXTS below for more information.

`flux_future_fulfill()` fulfills the future, assigning an opaque
_result_ value with optional destructor _free_fn_ to the future.
A NULL _result_ is valid and also fulfills the future.  The _result_
is contained within the future and can be accessed with `flux_future_get()`
as needed until the future is destroyed.

`flux_future_fulfill_error()` fulfills the future, assigning an _errnum_
value.  After the future is fulfilled with an error, `flux_future_get()`
will return -1 with errno set to _errnum_.

`flux_future_fatal_error()` fulfills the future, assigning an _errnum_
value.  Unlike `flux_future_fulfill_error()` this fulfillment can only
be called once and takes precedence over all other fulfillments.  It
is used for catastrophic error paths in future fulfillment.

`flux_future_aux_set()` attaches an object _aux_, with optional destructor
_destroy_, to the future under an optional _name_.  `flux_future_aux_get()`
retrieves an object by _name_.  Destructors are called when the future is
destroyed.  Objects may be stored anonymously under a NULL _name_ to be
scheduled for destruction without the option of retrieval.

`flux_future_set_reactor()` may be used to associate a Flux reactor 
with a future.  The reactor (or a temporary one, depending on the context)
may be retrieved using `flux_future_get_reactor()`.

`flux_future_set_flux()` may be used to associate a Flux broker handle
with a future.  The handle (or a clone associated with a temporary reactor,
depending on the context) may be retrieved using `flux_future_get_flux()`.

Futures may "contain" other futures, to arbitrary depth.  That is, an
init callback may create futures and use their continuations to fulfill
the containing future in the same manner as reactor watchers and message
handlers.


REACTOR CONTEXTS
----------------

Internally, a future can operate in two reactor contexts.  The initialization
callback may be called in either or both contexts, depending on which
synchronization functions are called by the user.  `flux_future_get_reactor()`
and `flux_future_get_flux()` return a result that depends on which context
they are called from.

When the user calls `flux_future_then()`, this triggers a call to the
initialization callback.  The callback would typically call
`flux_future_get_reactor()` and/or `flux_future_get_flux()` to obtain the 
reactor or flux_t handle to be used to set up watchers or message handlers.
In this context, the reactor or flux_t handle are exactly the ones passed
to `flux_future_set_reactor()` and `flux_future_set_flux()`.

When the user calls `flux_future_wait_for()`, this triggers the creation
of a temporary reactor, then a call to the initialization callback.
The temporary reactor allows these functions to wait _only_ for the future's
events, without allowing unrelated watchers registered in the main reactor
to run, which might complicate the application's control flow.  In this
context, `flux_future_get_reactor()` returns the temporary reactor, not
the one passed in with `flux_future_set_reactor()`.  `flux_future_get_flux()`
returns a temporary flux_t handle cloned from the one passed to
`flux_future_set_flux()`, and associated with the temporary reactor.
After the internal reactor returns, any messages unmatched by the dispatcher
on the cloned handle are requeued in the main flux_t handle with
`flux_dispatch_requeue()`.

Since the init callback may be made in either reactor context (at most once
each), and is unaware of which context that is, it should take care when
managing any context-specific state not to overwrite the state from a prior
call.  The ability to attach objects with destructors anonymously to the future
with `flux_future_aux_set()` may be useful for managing the life cycle
of reactor watchers and message handlers created by init callbacks.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_future_create()` returns a future on success.  On error, NULL is
returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_aux_set()` returns zero on success.  On error, -1 is
returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_aux_get()` returns the requested object on success.  On
error, NULL is returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_get_flux()` returns a flux_t handle on success.  On error,
NULL is returned and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_future_get_reactor()` returns a flux_reactor_t on success.  On error,
NULL is returned and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EINVAL::
Invalid argument.

ENOENT::
The requested object is not found.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_get(3), flux_clone(3)
