doc/man3/flux_kvs_commit.adoc, before:

flux_kvs_commit(3)
==================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_commit, flux_kvs_fence - commit a KVS transaction


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_commit (flux_t *h,
                                 const char *ns,
                                 int flags,
                                 flux_kvs_txn_t *txn);

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_fence (flux_t *h,
                                const char *ns,
                                int flags,
                                const char *name,
                                int nprocs,
                                flux_kvs_txn_t *txn);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_commit()` sends a request via handle _h_ to the KVS service
to commit a transaction _txn_.  _txn_ is created with
`flux_kvs_txn_create(3)` and after commit completion, is destroyed
with `flux_kvs_txn_destroy()`.  A `flux_future_t` object is returned,
which acts as handle for synchronization and container for the
response.  The _txn_ will operate in the namespace specified by _ns_.
If _ns_ is NULL, `flux_kvs_commit()` will operate on the namespace
returned via `flux_kvs_get_namespace()`.  Note that all transactions
operate on the same namespace.

`flux_kvs_fence()` is a "collective" version of `flux_kvs_commit()` that
supports multiple callers.  Each caller uses the same _flags_, _name_,
and _nprocs_ arguments.  Once _nprocs_ requests are received by the KVS
service for the named operation, the transactions are combined and committed
together as one transaction.  _name_ must be unique across the Flux session
and should not be reused, even after the fence is complete.

`flux_future_then(3)` may be used to register a reactor callback
(continuation) to be called once the response to the commit/fence
request has been received.  `flux_future_wait_for(3)` may be used to
block until the response has been received.  Both accept an optional timeout.

`flux_future_get()` decodes the response, and returns 0 if the commit/fence
was successful, indicating the entire transaction was committed, or -1
on failure, indicating none of the transaction was committed.

FLAGS
-----

The following are valid bits in a _flags_ mask passed as an argument
to `flux_kvs_commit()` or `flux_kvs_fence()`.

FLUX_KVS_NO_MERGE::
The KVS service may merge contemporaneous commit transactions as an
optimization.  However, if the combined transactions modify the same key,
a watch on that key may only be notified of the last-in value.  This flag
can be used to disable that optimization for this transaction.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_commit()` and `flux_kvs_fence()` return a `flux_future_t` on
success, or NULL on failure with errno set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EPROTO::
A request was malformed.

ENOSYS::
The KVS module is not loaded.

ENOTSUP::
An unknown namespace was requested.

EOVERFLOW::
`flux_kvs_fence()` has been called too many times and _nprocs_ has
been exceeded.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_get(3), flux_kvs_txn_create(3), flux_kvs_set_namespace(3)

Commit message:

libkvs: Remove flux_kvs_get_namespace()
As namespaces can only be set via environment variable now, the
need for a public function like flux_kvs_get_namespace() is no longer
necessary.  Create a private convenience function kvs_get_namespace()
for internal use.

doc/man3/flux_kvs_commit.adoc, after:

flux_kvs_commit(3)
==================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_commit, flux_kvs_fence - commit a KVS transaction


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_commit (flux_t *h,
                                 const char *ns,
                                 int flags,
                                 flux_kvs_txn_t *txn);

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_fence (flux_t *h,
                                const char *ns,
                                int flags,
                                const char *name,
                                int nprocs,
                                flux_kvs_txn_t *txn);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_commit()` sends a request via handle _h_ to the KVS service
to commit a transaction _txn_.  _txn_ is created with
`flux_kvs_txn_create(3)` and after commit completion, is destroyed
with `flux_kvs_txn_destroy()`.  A `flux_future_t` object is returned,
which acts as handle for synchronization and container for the
response.  The _txn_ will operate in the namespace specified by _ns_.
If _ns_ is NULL, `flux_kvs_commit()` will operate on the default
namespace, or if set, the namespace from the FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE
environment variable.  Note that all transactions operate on the same
namespace.

`flux_kvs_fence()` is a "collective" version of `flux_kvs_commit()` that
supports multiple callers.  Each caller uses the same _flags_, _name_,
and _nprocs_ arguments.  Once _nprocs_ requests are received by the KVS
service for the named operation, the transactions are combined and committed
together as one transaction.  _name_ must be unique across the Flux session
and should not be reused, even after the fence is complete.

`flux_future_then(3)` may be used to register a reactor callback
(continuation) to be called once the response to the commit/fence
request has been received.  `flux_future_wait_for(3)` may be used to
block until the response has been received.  Both accept an optional timeout.

`flux_future_get()` decodes the response, and returns 0 if the commit/fence
was successful, indicating the entire transaction was committed, or -1
on failure, indicating none of the transaction was committed.

FLAGS
-----

The following are valid bits in a _flags_ mask passed as an argument
to `flux_kvs_commit()` or `flux_kvs_fence()`.

FLUX_KVS_NO_MERGE::
The KVS service may merge contemporaneous commit transactions as an
optimization.  However, if the combined transactions modify the same key,
a watch on that key may only be notified of the last-in value.  This flag
can be used to disable that optimization for this transaction.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_commit()` and `flux_kvs_fence()` return a `flux_future_t` on
success, or NULL on failure with errno set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EPROTO::
A request was malformed.

ENOSYS::
The KVS module is not loaded.

ENOTSUP::
An unknown namespace was requested.

EOVERFLOW::
`flux_kvs_fence()` has been called too many times and _nprocs_ has
been exceeded.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_get(3), flux_kvs_txn_create(3), flux_kvs_set_namespace(3)
