doc/man3/flux_future_get.adoc, before:

flux_future_get(3)
==================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_future_get, flux_future_then, flux_future_wait_for, flux_future_destroy - synchronize an activity


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 typedef void (*flux_continuation_f)(flux_future_t *f, void *arg);

 int flux_future_get (flux_future_t *f, void *result);

 int flux_future_then (flux_future_t *f, double timeout,
                       flux_continuation_f cb, void *arg);

 int flux_future_wait_for (flux_future_t *f, double timeout);

 void flux_future_destroy (flux_future_t *f);


OVERVIEW
--------

A Flux future represents some activity that may be completed with reactor
watchers and/or message handlers.  It is both a handle for synchronization
and a container for the result.  A Flux future is said to be "fulfilled"
when a result is available in the future container, or a fatal error has
occurred.  Flux futures were inspired by similar constructs in other
programming environments mentioned in RESOURCES, but are not a faithful
implementation of any particular one.

Generally other Flux classes return futures, and may provide class-specific
access function for results. The functions described in this page can be
used to access, synchronize, and destroy futures returned from any such class.
Authors of classes that return futures are referred to `flux_future_create(3)`.

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_future_get()` accesses the result of a fulfilled future.  If the
future is not yet fulfilled, it calls `flux_future_wait_for()` internally
with a negative _timeout_, causing it to block until the future is fulfilled.
A pointer to the result is assigned to _result_ (caller must NOT free),
or -1 is returned if the future was fulfilled with an error.  Often this
function is wrapped with a class-specific result access function.

`flux_future_then()` sets up a continuation callback _cb_ that is called
with opaque argument _arg_ once the future is fulfilled.  The continuation
is registered on the reactor passed to a class-specific create function
(some create functions accept a flux_t handle, and the reactor is
derived from that).

The continuation will normally use `flux_future_get()` or a class-specific
access function to obtain the result from the future container without
blocking.  `flux_future_then()` may only be called once on a given future.
It is not an error to set up a continuation on a future that has already
been fulfilled.  If _timeout_ is non-negative, the future must be fulfilled
within the specified amount of time or the timeout fulfills it with an error
(errno set to ETIMEDOUT).  The reactor must be run or re-entered in order
for the timer and the future activity to make progress.  It is safe to
destroy the future from within the continuation callback.

`flux_future_wait_for()` blocks until the future is fulfilled, or _timeout_
(if non-negative) expires.  This function may be called multiple times,
with different values for _timeout_.  If the timeout expires before
the future is fulfilled, an error is returned (errno set to ETIMEDOUT)
but the future remains unfulfilled.  The timer and the future activity can
make progress while `flux_future_wait_for()` is executing, unless _timeout_
is zero, in which case the function times out immediately if the future
has not already been fulfilled.  While `flux_future_wait_for()` is executing,
unrelated reactor watchers and message handlers are not active.

`flux_future_destroy()` destroys a future, including any result contained
within.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_future_then()`, `flux_future_get()`, and `flux_future_wait_for()`
return zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set
appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EINVAL::
Invalid argument.

ETIMEDOUT::
A timeout passed to `flux_future_wait_for()` expired before the future
was fulfilled.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>

C++ std::future: <http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/thread/future>

Java util.concurrent.Future: <https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/Future.html>

Python3 concurrent.futures: <https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_create (3)

Commit message:

doc/flux_future_get(3): add flux_future_reset()
Add a description for flux_future_reset() to the
flux_future_get(3) man page.

doc/man3/flux_future_get.adoc, after:

flux_future_get(3)
==================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_future_get, flux_future_then, flux_future_wait_for, flux_future_reset, flux_future_destroy - synchronize an activity


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 typedef void (*flux_continuation_f)(flux_future_t *f, void *arg);

 int flux_future_get (flux_future_t *f, void *result);

 int flux_future_then (flux_future_t *f, double timeout,
                       flux_continuation_f cb, void *arg);

 int flux_future_wait_for (flux_future_t *f, double timeout);

 void flux_future_reset (flux_future_t *f);

 void flux_future_destroy (flux_future_t *f);


OVERVIEW
--------

A Flux future represents some activity that may be completed with reactor
watchers and/or message handlers.  It is both a handle for synchronization
and a container for the result.  A Flux future is said to be "fulfilled"
when a result is available in the future container, or a fatal error has
occurred.  Flux futures were inspired by similar constructs in other
programming environments mentioned in RESOURCES, but are not a faithful
implementation of any particular one.

Generally other Flux classes return futures, and may provide class-specific
access function for results. The functions described in this page can be
used to access, synchronize, and destroy futures returned from any such class.
Authors of classes that return futures are referred to `flux_future_create(3)`.

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_future_get()` accesses the result of a fulfilled future.  If the
future is not yet fulfilled, it calls `flux_future_wait_for()` internally
with a negative _timeout_, causing it to block until the future is fulfilled.
A pointer to the result is assigned to _result_ (caller must NOT free),
or -1 is returned if the future was fulfilled with an error.  Often this
function is wrapped with a class-specific result access function.

`flux_future_then()` sets up a continuation callback _cb_ that is called
with opaque argument _arg_ once the future is fulfilled.  The continuation
is registered on the reactor passed to a class-specific create function
(some create functions accept a flux_t handle, and the reactor is
derived from that).

The continuation will normally use `flux_future_get()` or a class-specific
access function to obtain the result from the future container without
blocking.  The continuation may call `flux_future_destroy()` or
`flux_future_reset()`.  It is not an error to set up a continuation on
a future that has already been fulfilled.  If _timeout_ is non-negative,
the future must be fulfilled within the specified amount of time or the
timeout fulfills it with an error (errno set to ETIMEDOUT).  The reactor
must be run or re-entered in order for the timer and the future activity
to make progress.

`flux_future_wait_for()` blocks until the future is fulfilled, or _timeout_
(if non-negative) expires.  This function may be called multiple times,
with different values for _timeout_.  If the timeout expires before
the future is fulfilled, an error is returned (errno set to ETIMEDOUT)
but the future remains unfulfilled.  The timer and the future activity can
make progress while `flux_future_wait_for()` is executing, unless _timeout_
is zero, in which case the function times out immediately if the future
has not already been fulfilled.  While `flux_future_wait_for()` is executing,
unrelated reactor watchers and message handlers are not active.

`flux_future_reset()` unfulfills a future, invalidating any result stored
in the container, and preparing it to be fulfilled once again.  If a
continuation was registered, it remains in effect for the next fulfillment,
however any timeout will have been cleared by the current fulfillment
and must be re-established by following the `flux_future_reset()` with
another `flux_future_then()`, if desired. 

`flux_future_destroy()` destroys a future, including any result contained
within.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_future_then()`, `flux_future_get()`, and `flux_future_wait_for()`
return zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set
appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EINVAL::
Invalid argument.

ETIMEDOUT::
A timeout passed to `flux_future_wait_for()` expired before the future
was fulfilled.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>

C++ std::future: <http://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/thread/future>

Java util.concurrent.Future: <https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/Future.html>

Python3 concurrent.futures: <https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_create (3)
