doc/man3/flux_rpc_then.adoc, before:

flux_rpc_then(3)
================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_rpc_check, flux_rpc_then - asynchronous RPC interface


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

typedef void (*flux_then_f)(flux_rpc_t *rpc, void *arg);

bool flux_rpc_check (flux_rpc_t *rpc);

int flux_rpc_then (flux_rpc_t *rpc, flux_then_f cb, void *arg);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_rpc_check()` and `flux_rpc_then()` may be used to asynchronously
complete the second half of a remote procedure call (RPC) that was
started with `flux_rpc(3)` or `flux_rpc_multi(3)`.

`flux_rpc_check()` returns true if the RPC response has been received
and a call to `flux_rpc_get(3)` or `flux_rpc_getf(3)` would not block.
It returns false if the response has not yet been received.

`flux_rpc_then()` may be used to register a continuation callback with
the broker handle's reactor.  The continuation will be called when the
RPC response is received.  It should call `flux_rpc_get(3)` or
`flux_rpc_getf(3)` to obtain the RPC result.

When the RPC is complete, the continuation stops its message handler
for responses.  The flux_rpc_t should be destroyed.  It is safe to
call `flux_rpc_destroy(3)` from within the continuation callback.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_rpc_then()` returns  zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_rpc_check()` does not report errors.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
Some arguments were invalid.


EXAMPLES
--------

This example performs an RPC with the broker's "cmb.attrget" service
to obtain the broker's rank.  If the response is available immediately,
it is processed synchronously.  Otherwise, a continuation is registered to
process the response when it arrives, meanwhile allowing other reactor
watchers (not shown) to execute.

....
include::trpc_then.c[]
....


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_rpc(3), flux_rpc_multi(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 6: Flux
Remote Procedure Call Protocol]

Commit message:

doc/flux_rpc_then(3): drop flux_rpc_multi(3) SEE ALSO
Drop reference to flux_rpc_multi(3) and word the references
to flux_rpc_get() variants more generically since a few
have been added since this man page was written.

doc/man3/flux_rpc_then.adoc, after:

flux_rpc_then(3)
================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_rpc_check, flux_rpc_then - asynchronous RPC interface


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

typedef void (*flux_then_f)(flux_rpc_t *rpc, void *arg);

bool flux_rpc_check (flux_rpc_t *rpc);

int flux_rpc_then (flux_rpc_t *rpc, flux_then_f cb, void *arg);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_rpc_check()` and `flux_rpc_then()` may be used to asynchronously
complete the second half of a remote procedure call (RPC) that was
started with one of the `flux_rpc(3)` variants.

`flux_rpc_check()` returns true if the RPC response has been received
and a call to one of the `flux_rpc_get(3)` variants would not block.
It returns false if the response has not yet been received.

`flux_rpc_then()` may be used to register a continuation callback with
the broker handle's reactor.  The continuation will be called when the
RPC response is received.  It should call one of the `flux_rpc_get(3)`
variants to obtain the RPC result.

When the RPC is complete, the continuation stops its message handler
for responses.  The flux_rpc_t should be destroyed.  It is safe to
call `flux_rpc_destroy(3)` from within the continuation callback.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_rpc_then()` returns  zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_rpc_check()` does not report errors.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
Some arguments were invalid.


EXAMPLES
--------

This example performs an RPC with the broker's "cmb.attrget" service
to obtain the broker's rank.  If the response is available immediately,
it is processed synchronously.  Otherwise, a continuation is registered to
process the response when it arrives, meanwhile allowing other reactor
watchers (not shown) to execute.

....
include::trpc_then.c[]
....


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_rpc(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 6: Flux
Remote Procedure Call Protocol]
