doc/man3/flux_kvs_eventlog_create.adoc, before:

flux_kvs_eventlog_create(3)
===========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_eventlog_create, flux_kvs_eventlog_destroy, flux_kvs_eventlog_encode, flux_kvs_eventlog_decode, flux_kvs_eventlog_update, flux_kvs_eventlog_append, flux_kvs_eventlog_first, flux_kvs_eventlog_next - manipulate RFC 18 KVS eventlogs


SYNOPSIS
--------

 struct flux_kvs_eventlog *flux_kvs_eventlog_create (void);

 void flux_kvs_eventlog_destroy (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 char *flux_kvs_eventlog_encode (const struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 struct flux_kvs_eventlog *flux_kvs_eventlog_decode (const char *s);

 int flux_kvs_eventlog_update (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog,
                               const char *s);

 int flux_kvs_eventlog_append (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog,
                               const char *s);

 const char *flux_kvs_eventlog_first (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 const char *flux_kvs_eventlog_next (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 int flux_kvs_event_decode (const char *s,
                            double *timestamp,
                            flux_kvs_event_name_t name,
                            flux_kvs_event_context_t context);

 char *flux_kvs_event_encode (const char *name, const char *context);

 char *flux_kvs_event_encode_timestamp (double timestamp,
                                       const char *name,
                                       const char *context);



DESCRIPTION
-----------

An RFC 18 KVS eventlog consists of single line log entries of the form:

  timestamp name [context ...]\n

Where 'timestamp' is seconds since the UNIX epoch (UTC), in decimal form;
'name' is a 64 character or less event name, and 'context' is an optional
256 character or less free form string.  Each event is terminated by a newline
character.

Raw event strings can be atomically appended to an eventlog stored in the KVS
using `flux_kvs_txn_put()` with the the 'FLUX_KVS_APPEND' flag.
The eventlog can be accessed with `flux_kvs_lookup()`, optionally with
the 'FLUX_KVS_WATCH' flag.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_create()` creates an empty eventlog object in memory,
and `flux_kvs_eventlog_destroy()` disposes of it.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_decode()` creates an eventlog object from raw RFC 18
eventlog data in string form, such as would be returned by
`flux_kvs_lookup_get()`.  The caller must free the returned object.
`flux_kvs_eventlog_encode()` performs the opposite function; again, the
caller must free the returned string.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_update()` updates an eventlog object with a new snapshot
of the raw log, such as might be returned from `flux_kvs_lookup_get()`.
This function does not change the iterator cursor.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_append()` appends a single raw event to the eventlog.

The events in an eventlog object may be accessed in raw form  with the
iterators `flux_kvs_eventlog_first()` and `flux_kvs_eventlog_next()`.
These functions return NULL when the end of the log has been reached.
Pointers returned by these functions remain valid until the object
is destroyed.

`flux_kvs_event_decode()` decodes a raw event, copying the timestamp,
name, and context fields to the supplied storage.  A field may be
ignored by setting the corresponding parameter to zero.  If the optional
context is not present, the supplied storage will be filled with the
empty string.

`flux_kvs_event_encode()` creates a raw event from the supplied fields.
The timestamp is assigned the current wallclock time. The caller must
free the returned event string.  `flux_kvs_event_encode_timestamp()` is
the same except the timestamp value may be explicitly set.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_eventlog_create()` and `flux_kvs_eventlog_decode()` return
an eventlog object on success, or NULL on failure with errno set.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_encode()`, `flux_kvs_event_encode()`, and
`flux_kvs_event_encode_timestamp()` return encoded strings on success,
or NULL on failure with errno set.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_update()`, `flux_kvs_eventlog_append()`, and
`flux_kvs_event_decode()` return 0 on success, or -1 on failure
with errno set.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_first()` and `flux_kvs_eventlog_next()` return
a const pointer to a raw event, or NULL if the internal cursor has
reached the end of the log.

ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup (3), flux_kvs_txn_create (3)

Commit message:

doc/flux_kvs_eventlog_create(3): track API change

doc/man3/flux_kvs_eventlog_create.adoc, after:

flux_kvs_eventlog_create(3)
===========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_eventlog_create, flux_kvs_eventlog_destroy, flux_kvs_eventlog_encode, flux_kvs_eventlog_decode, flux_kvs_eventlog_update, flux_kvs_eventlog_append, flux_kvs_eventlog_first, flux_kvs_eventlog_next - manipulate RFC 18 KVS eventlogs


SYNOPSIS
--------

 struct flux_kvs_eventlog *flux_kvs_eventlog_create (void);

 void flux_kvs_eventlog_destroy (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 char *flux_kvs_eventlog_encode (const struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 struct flux_kvs_eventlog *flux_kvs_eventlog_decode (const char *s);

 int flux_kvs_eventlog_update (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog,
                               const char *s);

 int flux_kvs_eventlog_append (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog,
                               const char *s);

 const char *flux_kvs_eventlog_first (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 const char *flux_kvs_eventlog_next (struct flux_kvs_eventlog *eventlog);

 int flux_kvs_event_decode (const char *s,
                            double *timestamp,
                            char *name, int name_size,
                            char *context, int context_size);

 char *flux_kvs_event_encode (const char *name, const char *context);

 char *flux_kvs_event_encode_timestamp (double timestamp,
                                       const char *name,
                                       const char *context);



DESCRIPTION
-----------

An RFC 18 KVS eventlog consists of single line log entries of the form:

  timestamp name [context ...]\n

Where 'timestamp' is seconds since the UNIX epoch (UTC), in decimal form;
'name' is a 64 character or less event name, and 'context' is an optional
256 character or less free form string.  Each event is terminated by a newline
character.

Raw event strings can be atomically appended to an eventlog stored in the KVS
using `flux_kvs_txn_put()` with the the 'FLUX_KVS_APPEND' flag.
The eventlog can be accessed with `flux_kvs_lookup()`, optionally with
the 'FLUX_KVS_WATCH' flag.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_create()` creates an empty eventlog object in memory,
and `flux_kvs_eventlog_destroy()` disposes of it.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_decode()` creates an eventlog object from raw RFC 18
eventlog data in string form, such as would be returned by
`flux_kvs_lookup_get()`.  The caller must free the returned object.
`flux_kvs_eventlog_encode()` performs the opposite function; again, the
caller must free the returned string.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_update()` updates an eventlog object with a new snapshot
of the raw log, such as might be returned from `flux_kvs_lookup_get()`.
This function does not change the iterator cursor.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_append()` appends a single raw event to the eventlog.

The events in an eventlog object may be accessed in raw form  with the
iterators `flux_kvs_eventlog_first()` and `flux_kvs_eventlog_next()`.
These functions return NULL when the end of the log has been reached.
Pointers returned by these functions remain valid until the object
is destroyed.

`flux_kvs_event_decode()` decodes a raw event, copying the timestamp,
name, and context fields to the corresponding output parameters.
It is advised that the _name_ be large enough to contain
`FLUX_KVS_MAX_EVENT_NAME + 1` bytes, and _context_ large enough to contain
`FLUX_KVS_MAX_EVENT_CONTEXT + 1` bytes.  If an output parameter is NULL,
the corresponding field is parsed internally, but not copied.
If _context_ is not NULL, and the event does not contain the optional
context field, the empty string is be copied to the supplied storage.

`flux_kvs_event_encode()` creates a raw event from the supplied fields.
The timestamp is assigned the current wallclock time. The caller must
free the returned event string.  `flux_kvs_event_encode_timestamp()` is
the same except the timestamp value may be explicitly set.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_eventlog_create()` and `flux_kvs_eventlog_decode()` return
an eventlog object on success, or NULL on failure with errno set.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_encode()`, `flux_kvs_event_encode()`, and
`flux_kvs_event_encode_timestamp()` return encoded strings on success,
or NULL on failure with errno set.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_update()`, `flux_kvs_eventlog_append()`, and
`flux_kvs_event_decode()` return 0 on success, or -1 on failure
with errno set.

`flux_kvs_eventlog_first()` and `flux_kvs_eventlog_next()` return
a const pointer to a raw event, or NULL if the internal cursor has
reached the end of the log.

ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup (3), flux_kvs_txn_create (3)
