doc/man3/flux_mrpc.adoc, before:

flux_mrpc(3)
============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_mrpc - send a remote procedure call to a Flux service on multiple ranks


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

flux_mrpc_t *flux_mrpc (flux_t *h, const char *topic, const char *s,
                        const char *nodeset, int flags);

flux_mrpc_t *flux_mrpc_pack (flux_t *h, const char *topic, const char *nodeset,
                             int flags, const char *fmt, ...);

int flux_mrpc_get (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char **s);

int flux_mrpc_get_unpack (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char *fmt, ...);

int flux_mrpc_get_raw (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const void **data, int *len);

int flux_mrpc_get_nodeid (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, uint32_t *nodeid);

int flux_mrpc_next (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc);

bool flux_mrpc_check (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc);

int flux_mrpc_then (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, flux_mrpc_continuation_f cb, void *arg);

void *flux_mrpc_aux_get (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char *name);

int flux_mrpc_aux_set (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char *name,
                      void *aux, flux_free_f destroy);

void flux_mrpc_destroy (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_mrpc()` encodes and sends a batch of request messages to multiple
ranks.  A flux_mrpc_t object is returned which can be used with
`flux_mrpc_get()` and `flux_mrpc_next()` to obtain the decoded responses,
as they become available.  The flux_mrpc_t should finally be disposed of
using `flux_mrpc_destroy()`.

_topic_ must be set to a topic string representing the Flux
service that will handle the request.

_json_in_, if non-NULL, must be a string containing valid serialized
JSON to be attached as payload to the request.  If NULL, the request
will be sent without a payload.

_nodeset_ is a string containing a bracketed set of ranks, "all" as a
shorthand for all ranks in the session, or "any" as a shorthand for a
single RPC to FLUX_NODEID_ANY, or "upstream" as a shorthand for a
single RPC to FLUX_NODEID_UPSTREAM.  Examples of valid nodeset strings
are "[0-255]", "[1,2.3]", and "[0,3,5-10]".

_flags_ may be zero or:

FLUX_RPC_NORESPONSE::
No response is expected.  The request will not be assigned a matchtag,
and the flux_mrpc_t returned by `flux_mrpc()` may be immediately destroyed.

`flux_mrpc_get()` blocks until a matching response is received, then
decodes the result.  For asynchronous response handling,
see flux_mrpc_then(3).

`flux_mrpc_next()` invalidates the last-received message and payload
returned by `flux_mrpc_get()`, and returns 0 if more responses are received.
Once all responses have been received, `flux_mrpc_next()` returns -1;
thus it may be used as the conditional on a do-while loop, e.g.
....
do {
    flux_mrpc_get (mrpc, &payload);
} while (flux_mrpc_next (mrpc) == 0);
....

`flux_mrpc_get_nodeid()` blocks until a matching response is received, then
decodes the nodeid in the response message.  If the remote service returned
a response containing an error, `flux_mrpc_get_nodeid()` will succeed,
while `flux_mrpc_get()` will fail.  This allows the failing nodeid to
be determined.

`flux_mrpc_pack()` is a variant of `flux_mrpc()` that constructs a
JSON payload based on the provided _fmt_ string and variable arguments.
The _fmt_ string and variable arguments are passed internally to
jansson's `json_pack()` function.  See below for details.

`flux_mrpc_check()` and `flux_mrpc_then()` may be used to asynchronously
complete the second half of a remote procedure call (RPC) that was
started with one of the `flux_mrpc(3)` variants.

`flux_mrpc_check()` returns true if an RPC response has been received
and a call to one of the `flux_mrpc_get(3)` variants would not block.
It returns false if the response has not yet been received.

`flux_mrpc_then()` may be used to register a continuation callback with
the broker handle's reactor.  The continuation will be called each time
an RPC response is received.  It should call one of the `flux_mrpc_get(3)`
variants to obtain the RPC result.

When the RPC is complete, the continuation stops its message handler
for responses.  The flux_mrpc_t should be destroyed.  It is safe to
call `flux_mrpc_destroy(3)` from within the continuation callback.


include::JSON_PACK.adoc[]


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_mrpc()` and `flux_mrpc_pack()` returns a flux_mrpc_t object
on success.  On error, NULL is returned, and errno is set
appropriately.

`flux_mrpc_next()` returns 0 if additional responses are expected, else -1.
It does not set errno.

`flux_mrpc_get_nodeid()` returns 0 on success;  on failure, it returns -1
and sets errno appropriately.

`flux_mrpc_then()` returns  zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_mrpc_check()` does not report errors.


ERRORS
------

ENOSYS::
Handle has no send operation.

EINVAL::
Some arguments were invalid.

EPROTO::
A protocol error was encountered.


CAVEATS
-------

In the current implementation of `flux_mrpc()`, all requests are sent
during the `flux_mrpc()` call.  Since requests are sent without waiting
for a response, messages may flood the brokers and overlay channels,
since there is no flow control of requests based on the timing of return
messages.


EXAMPLE
-------

This example performs an RPC with the broker's "cmb.attrget" service on all
ranks.  A continuation is registered to process the responses as they arrive.
The reactor loop terminates once the RPC is completed since the completion
is its only event handler.

....
include::tmrpc_then.c[]
....


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_mrpc_then(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 6: Flux
Remote Procedure Call Protocol]

Commit message:

doc/flux_mrpc(3): use boilerplate aux description

doc/man3/flux_mrpc.adoc, after:

flux_mrpc(3)
============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_mrpc - send a remote procedure call to a Flux service on multiple ranks


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

flux_mrpc_t *flux_mrpc (flux_t *h, const char *topic, const char *s,
                        const char *nodeset, int flags);

flux_mrpc_t *flux_mrpc_pack (flux_t *h, const char *topic, const char *nodeset,
                             int flags, const char *fmt, ...);

int flux_mrpc_get (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char **s);

int flux_mrpc_get_unpack (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char *fmt, ...);

int flux_mrpc_get_raw (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const void **data, int *len);

int flux_mrpc_get_nodeid (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, uint32_t *nodeid);

int flux_mrpc_next (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc);

bool flux_mrpc_check (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc);

int flux_mrpc_then (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, flux_mrpc_continuation_f cb, void *arg);

void *flux_mrpc_aux_get (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char *name);

int flux_mrpc_aux_set (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc, const char *name,
                      void *aux, flux_free_f destroy);

void flux_mrpc_destroy (flux_mrpc_t *mrpc);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_mrpc()` encodes and sends a batch of request messages to multiple
ranks.  A flux_mrpc_t object is returned which can be used with
`flux_mrpc_get()` and `flux_mrpc_next()` to obtain the decoded responses,
as they become available.  The flux_mrpc_t should finally be disposed of
using `flux_mrpc_destroy()`.

_topic_ must be set to a topic string representing the Flux
service that will handle the request.

_json_in_, if non-NULL, must be a string containing valid serialized
JSON to be attached as payload to the request.  If NULL, the request
will be sent without a payload.

_nodeset_ is a string containing a bracketed set of ranks, "all" as a
shorthand for all ranks in the session, or "any" as a shorthand for a
single RPC to FLUX_NODEID_ANY, or "upstream" as a shorthand for a
single RPC to FLUX_NODEID_UPSTREAM.  Examples of valid nodeset strings
are "[0-255]", "[1,2.3]", and "[0,3,5-10]".

_flags_ may be zero or:

FLUX_RPC_NORESPONSE::
No response is expected.  The request will not be assigned a matchtag,
and the flux_mrpc_t returned by `flux_mrpc()` may be immediately destroyed.

`flux_mrpc_get()` blocks until a matching response is received, then
decodes the result.  For asynchronous response handling,
see flux_mrpc_then(3).

`flux_mrpc_next()` invalidates the last-received message and payload
returned by `flux_mrpc_get()`, and returns 0 if more responses are received.
Once all responses have been received, `flux_mrpc_next()` returns -1;
thus it may be used as the conditional on a do-while loop, e.g.
....
do {
    flux_mrpc_get (mrpc, &payload);
} while (flux_mrpc_next (mrpc) == 0);
....

`flux_mrpc_get_nodeid()` blocks until a matching response is received, then
decodes the nodeid in the response message.  If the remote service returned
a response containing an error, `flux_mrpc_get_nodeid()` will succeed,
while `flux_mrpc_get()` will fail.  This allows the failing nodeid to
be determined.

`flux_mrpc_pack()` is a variant of `flux_mrpc()` that constructs a
JSON payload based on the provided _fmt_ string and variable arguments.
The _fmt_ string and variable arguments are passed internally to
jansson's `json_pack()` function.  See below for details.

`flux_mrpc_check()` and `flux_mrpc_then()` may be used to asynchronously
complete the second half of a remote procedure call (RPC) that was
started with one of the `flux_mrpc(3)` variants.

`flux_mrpc_check()` returns true if an RPC response has been received
and a call to one of the `flux_mrpc_get(3)` variants would not block.
It returns false if the response has not yet been received.

`flux_mrpc_then()` may be used to register a continuation callback with
the broker handle's reactor.  The continuation will be called each time
an RPC response is received.  It should call one of the `flux_mrpc_get(3)`
variants to obtain the RPC result.

When the RPC is complete, the continuation stops its message handler
for responses.  The flux_mrpc_t should be destroyed.  It is safe to
call `flux_mrpc_destroy(3)` from within the continuation callback.

`flux_mrpc_aux_set()` attaches application-specific data
to the parent object _mrpc_.  It stores data _aux_ by key _name_,
with optional destructor _destroy_.  The destructor, if non-NULL,
is called when the parent object is destroyed, or when
_key_ is overwritten by a new value.  If _aux_ is NULL,
the destructor for a previous value, if any is called,
 but no new value is stored.  If _name_ is NULL,
_aux_ is stored anonymously.

`flux_mrpc_aux_get()` retrieves application-specific data
by _name_.  If the data was stored anonymously, it
cannot be retrieved.

Names beginning with "flux::" are reserved for internal use.



RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_mrpc()` and `flux_mrpc_pack()` returns a flux_mrpc_t object
on success.  On error, NULL is returned, and errno is set
appropriately.

`flux_mrpc_next()` returns 0 if additional responses are expected, else -1.
It does not set errno.

`flux_mrpc_get_nodeid()` returns 0 on success;  on failure, it returns -1
and sets errno appropriately.

`flux_mrpc_then()` returns  zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_mrpc_check()` does not report errors.

`flux_mrpc_aux_set()` returns 0 on success, -1 on failure with errno set.

`flux_mrpc_aux_get()` returns _aux_ on success, NULL on failure with errno set.


ERRORS
------

ENOSYS::
Handle has no send operation.

EINVAL::
Some arguments were invalid.

EPROTO::
A protocol error was encountered.

ENOENT::
An unknown key was passed to `flux_mrpc_aux_get()`.

CAVEATS
-------

In the current implementation of `flux_mrpc()`, all requests are sent
during the `flux_mrpc()` call.  Since requests are sent without waiting
for a response, messages may flood the brokers and overlay channels,
since there is no flow control of requests based on the timing of return
messages.


EXAMPLE
-------

This example performs an RPC with the broker's "cmb.attrget" service on all
ranks.  A continuation is registered to process the responses as they arrive.
The reactor loop terminates once the RPC is completed since the completion
is its only event handler.

....
include::tmrpc_then.c[]
....


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_mrpc_then(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 6: Flux
Remote Procedure Call Protocol]
