doc/man3/flux_future_and_then.adoc, before:

flux_future_and_then(3)
=======================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_future_and_then, flux_future_or_then, flux_future_continue, flux_future_continue_error - functions for sequential composition of futures


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_future_and_then (flux_future_t *f,
                                      flux_continuation_f cb, void *arg);
 flux_future_t *flux_future_or_then (flux_future_t *f,
                                     flux_continuation_f cb, void *arg);

 int flux_future_continue (flux_future_t *prev, flux_future_t *f);
 void flux_future_continue_error (flux_future_t *prev, int errnum);



DESCRIPTION
-----------

See `flux_future_get(3)` for general functions that operate on futures,
and `flux_future_create(3)` for a description of the `flux_future_t`
base type. This page covers functions for the sequential composition of
futures, i.e. chains of dependent futures.

`flux_future_and_then(3)` is similar to `flux_future_then(3)`, but
returns a future that may later be "continued" from the continuation
callback `cb`. The provided continuation callback `cb` is only 
executed when the future argument `f` is fulfilled successfully. On
error, the error from `f` is automatically propagated to the "next"
future in the chain (returned by the function).

`flux_future_and_then()` is useful when a series of asynchronous
operations, each returning a `flux_future_t`, depend on the result
of a previous operation. That is, `flux_future_and_then()` returns a
placeholder future for an eventual future that can't be created until
the continuation `cb` is run. The returned future can then be
used as a synchronization handle or even passed to another
`flux_future_and_then()` in the chain. The callback `cb` *must* call
either `flux_future_continue(3)` or `flux_future_continue_error(3)`
to pass a result to the next future in the chain, otherwise the last
future in the chain can never be fulfilled.

`flux_future_or_then(3)` is like `flux_future_and_then()`, except
the continuation callback `cb` is run when the future `f` is fulfilled
with an error. This function is useful for recovery or other error
handling (other than the default behavior of propagating an error
down the chain to the final result). The `flux_future_or_then()`
callback offers a chance to successfully fulfill the "next" future
in the chain, even when the "previous" future was fulfilled with
an error.

As with `flux_future_and_then()` it is important that the continuation
`cb` function for `flux_future_or_then()` calls `flux_future_continue()`
or `flux_future_continue_error()` to avoid breaking the chain.

`flux_future_continue(3)` continues the next future embedded in `prev`
(created by `flux_future_and_then()` or `flux_future_or_then()` with
the eventual result of the provided future `f`. This allows a future
that was not created until the context of the callback to continue
a sequential chain of futures created earlier.

`flux_future_continue_error(3)` is like `flux_future_continue()`
but immediately fulfills the next future in the chain with an error.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_future_and_then()` and `flux_future_or_then()` return a `flux_future_t`
on success, or NULL on error. If both functions are called on the same
future, the returned `flux_future_t` from each will be the same object.

`flux_future_continue()` returns 0 on success, or -1 on error with errno
set.

ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EINVAL::
Invalid argument.

ENOENT::
The requested object is not found.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_get(3), flux_future_create(3)

Commit message:

doc: clarify flux_future_continue(3)
Problem: There was some evident confusion in the memory handling
for the futures passed to flux_future_continue(3), resulting in
memory leaks.

Clarify by adjusting the documentation in both the man page and
the comments on the function prototype in future.h.

doc/man3/flux_future_and_then.adoc, after:

flux_future_and_then(3)
=======================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_future_and_then, flux_future_or_then, flux_future_continue, flux_future_continue_error - functions for sequential composition of futures


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_future_and_then (flux_future_t *f,
                                      flux_continuation_f cb, void *arg);
 flux_future_t *flux_future_or_then (flux_future_t *f,
                                     flux_continuation_f cb, void *arg);

 int flux_future_continue (flux_future_t *prev, flux_future_t *f);
 void flux_future_continue_error (flux_future_t *prev, int errnum);



DESCRIPTION
-----------

See `flux_future_get(3)` for general functions that operate on futures,
and `flux_future_create(3)` for a description of the `flux_future_t`
base type. This page covers functions for the sequential composition of
futures, i.e. chains of dependent futures.

`flux_future_and_then(3)` is similar to `flux_future_then(3)`, but
returns a future that may later be "continued" from the continuation
callback `cb`. The provided continuation callback `cb` is only 
executed when the future argument `f` is fulfilled successfully. On
error, the error from `f` is automatically propagated to the "next"
future in the chain (returned by the function).

`flux_future_and_then()` is useful when a series of asynchronous
operations, each returning a `flux_future_t`, depend on the result
of a previous operation. That is, `flux_future_and_then()` returns a
placeholder future for an eventual future that can't be created until
the continuation `cb` is run. The returned future can then be
used as a synchronization handle or even passed to another
`flux_future_and_then()` in the chain. The callback `cb` *must* call
either `flux_future_continue(3)` or `flux_future_continue_error(3)`
to pass a result to the next future in the chain, otherwise the last
future in the chain can never be fulfilled.

`flux_future_or_then(3)` is like `flux_future_and_then()`, except
the continuation callback `cb` is run when the future `f` is fulfilled
with an error. This function is useful for recovery or other error
handling (other than the default behavior of propagating an error
down the chain to the final result). The `flux_future_or_then()`
callback offers a chance to successfully fulfill the "next" future
in the chain, even when the "previous" future was fulfilled with
an error.

As with `flux_future_and_then()` it is important that the continuation
`cb` function for `flux_future_or_then()` calls `flux_future_continue()`
or `flux_future_continue_error()` to avoid breaking the chain.

`flux_future_continue(3)` continues the next future embedded in `prev`
(created by `flux_future_and_then()` or `flux_future_or_then()` with
the eventual result of the provided future `f`. This allows a future
that was not created until the context of the callback to continue
a sequential chain of futures created earlier. After the call to
`flux_future_continue(3)` completes, the future `prev` may safely be
destroyed.

`flux_future_continue_error(3)` is like `flux_future_continue()`
but immediately fulfills the next future in the chain with an error.
Once `flux_future_continue_error(3)` completes, the future `prev`
may safely be destroyed.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_future_and_then()` and `flux_future_or_then()` return a `flux_future_t`
on success, or NULL on error. If both functions are called on the same
future, the returned `flux_future_t` from each will be the same object.

`flux_future_continue()` returns 0 on success, or -1 on error with errno
set.

ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EINVAL::
Invalid argument.

ENOENT::
The requested object is not found.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_future_get(3), flux_future_create(3)
