doc/man3/flux_open.adoc, before:

flux_open(3)
============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_open, flux_close - open/close connection to Flux Message Broker


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

flux_t *flux_open (const char *uri, int flags);

void flux_close (flux_t *h);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_open()` creates a `flux_t` handle, used to communicate with the
Flux message broker.

The _uri_ scheme (before "://") specifies the "connector"
that will be used to establish the connection.  The _uri_ path
(after "://") is parsed by the connector.  If _uri_ is NULL,
the value of $FLUX_URI is used, if set.

_flags_ is the logical "or" of zero or more of the following flags:

FLUX_O_TRACE::
Dumps message trace to stderr.

FLUX_O_NONBLOCK::
The `flux_send()` and `flux_recv()` functions should never block.

`flux_close()` destroys a `flux_t` handle, closing its connection with
the Flux message broker.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_open()` returns an open `flux_t` handle on success.  On error,
NULL is returned, and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
_uri_ was NULL and $FLUX_URI was not set, or other arguments were invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


EXAMPLES
--------

This example opens the Flux broker using the default connector
and path, requests the broker rank, and finally closes the broker handle.

....
include::topen.c[]
....


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]

Commit message:

doc/flux_open(3): add flux_clone() description

doc/man3/flux_open.adoc, after:

flux_open(3)
============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_open, flux_clone, flux_close - open/close connection to Flux Message Broker


SYNOPSIS
--------
#include <flux/core.h>

flux_t *flux_open (const char *uri, int flags);

void flux_close (flux_t *h);

flux_t *flux_clone (flux_t *orig);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_open()` creates a `flux_t` handle, used to communicate with the
Flux message broker.

The _uri_ scheme (before "://") specifies the "connector"
that will be used to establish the connection.  The _uri_ path
(after "://") is parsed by the connector.  If _uri_ is NULL,
the value of $FLUX_URI is used, if set.

_flags_ is the logical "or" of zero or more of the following flags:

FLUX_O_TRACE::
Dumps message trace to stderr.

FLUX_O_NONBLOCK::
The `flux_send()` and `flux_recv()` functions should never block.

`flux_clone()` creates another reference to a `flux_t` handle that is
identical to the original in all respects except that it does not inherit
a copy of the original handle's "aux" hash, or its reactor and message
dispatcher references.  By creating a clone, and calling `flux_set_reactor()`
on it, one can create message handlers on the cloned handle that run on a
different reactor than the one associated with the original handle.

`flux_close()` destroys a `flux_t` handle, closing its connection with
the Flux message broker.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_open()` and `flux_clone()` return a `flux_t` handle on success.
On error, NULL is returned, and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
_uri_ was NULL and $FLUX_URI was not set, or other arguments were invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


EXAMPLES
--------

This example opens the Flux broker using the default connector
and path, requests the broker rank, and finally closes the broker handle.

....
include::topen.c[]
....


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]
