doc/man3/flux_msg_handler_create.adoc, before:

flux_msg_handler_create(3)
==========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_msg_handler_create, flux_msg_handler_destroy,
flux_msg_handler_start, flux_msg_handler_stop,
flux_msg_handler_allow_rolemask,
flux_msg_handler_deny_rolemask  -  manage message handlers


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 typedef void (*flux_msg_handler_f)(flux_t *h,
                                    flux_msg_handler_t *mh,
                                    const flux_msg_t *msg,
                                    void *arg);

 flux_msg_handler_t *
 flux_msg_handler_create (flux_t *h,
                          const struct flux_match match,
                          flux_msg_handler_f callback,
                          void *arg);

 void flux_msg_handler_destroy (flux_msg_handler_t *mh);

 void flux_msg_handler_start (flux_msg_handler_t *mh);

 void flux_msg_handler_stop (flux_msg_handler_t *mh);

 void flux_msg_handler_allow_rolemask (flux_msg_handler_t *w,
                                       uint32_t rolemask);

 void flux_msg_handler_deny_rolemask (flux_msg_handler_t *w,
                                      uint32_t rolemask);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_msg_handler_create()` registers _callback_ to be invoked when
a message meeting _match_ criteria, as described in `flux_msg_cmp(3)`,
is received on Flux broker handle _h_.

The message handler must be started with `flux_msg_handler_start()` in
order to receive messages.   Conversely, `flux_msg_handler_stop()` causes
the message handler to stop receiving messages.  Starting and stopping
are idempotent operations.

The handle _h_ is monitored for FLUX_POLLIN events on the flux_reactor_t
associated with the handle as described in `flux_set_reactor(3)`.
This internal "handle watcher" is started when the first message handler
is started, and stopped when the last message handler is stopped.

Messages arriving on _h_ are internally read and dispatched to matching
message handlers.  If multiple handlers match the message, the message
is dispatched to the most recently registered handler.

FLUX_MSGTYPE_REQUEST messages with no matching message handler
are automatically sent an ENOSYS response by the dispatcher.

`flux_msg_handler_destroy()` destroys a handler, after internally
stopping it.


SECURITY
--------

As described in RFC 12, Flux connectors authenticate each broker
connection, mapping it to a Flux userid and set of "roles" allocated
to that user.  This userid and rolemask is stamped on all messages
originating from the connection.

A message handler only receives a message if a bit-wise and of the message
rolemask and the message handler rolemask evaluates to a non-zero value,
or the message rolemask contains the FLUX_ROLE_OWNER (instance owner) role.

By default, the message handler rolemask is 0, but may be changed with
`flux_msg_handler_allow_rolemask()` and `flux_msg_handler_deny_rolemask()`,
which add or remove roles from the message handler rolemask.  The
FLUX_ROLE_OWNER bit position is ignored in the message handler rolemask.

The following roles are defined in RFC 12:

FLUX_ROLE_OWNER::
The instance owner role has maximum privilege within the Flux instance.

FLUX_ROLE_USER::
The user role confers access, but not administrative privilege.

Other roles are yet to be defined.


CAVEATS
-------

FLUX_MSGTYPE_EVENT messages are received on the handle only as
requested by `flux_event_subscribe(3)`.

`flux-broker(1)` only routes FLUX_MSGTYPE_REQUEST messages to comms
modules according to their registered service name, which is the same as
the module name.  Other handle instances such as those on the local connector
cannot yet receive requests.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_msg_handler_create()` returns a flux_msg_handler_t object on success.
On error, NULL is returned, and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_get_reactor(3), flux_reactor_start(3), flux_msg_cmp(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 12: Flux Security Architecture]

Commit message:

doc/flux_msg_handler_create(3): define more roles
Add FLUX_ROLEMASK_NONE and FLUX_ROLEMASK_ALL and make
sure to be clear that allow/deny modify, not overwrite,
the existing rolemask.

doc/man3/flux_msg_handler_create.adoc, after:

flux_msg_handler_create(3)
==========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_msg_handler_create, flux_msg_handler_destroy,
flux_msg_handler_start, flux_msg_handler_stop,
flux_msg_handler_allow_rolemask,
flux_msg_handler_deny_rolemask  -  manage message handlers


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 typedef void (*flux_msg_handler_f)(flux_t *h,
                                    flux_msg_handler_t *mh,
                                    const flux_msg_t *msg,
                                    void *arg);

 flux_msg_handler_t *
 flux_msg_handler_create (flux_t *h,
                          const struct flux_match match,
                          flux_msg_handler_f callback,
                          void *arg);

 void flux_msg_handler_destroy (flux_msg_handler_t *mh);

 void flux_msg_handler_start (flux_msg_handler_t *mh);

 void flux_msg_handler_stop (flux_msg_handler_t *mh);

 void flux_msg_handler_allow_rolemask (flux_msg_handler_t *w,
                                       uint32_t rolemask);

 void flux_msg_handler_deny_rolemask (flux_msg_handler_t *w,
                                      uint32_t rolemask);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_msg_handler_create()` registers _callback_ to be invoked when
a message meeting _match_ criteria, as described in `flux_msg_cmp(3)`,
is received on Flux broker handle _h_.

The message handler must be started with `flux_msg_handler_start()` in
order to receive messages.   Conversely, `flux_msg_handler_stop()` causes
the message handler to stop receiving messages.  Starting and stopping
are idempotent operations.

The handle _h_ is monitored for FLUX_POLLIN events on the flux_reactor_t
associated with the handle as described in `flux_set_reactor(3)`.
This internal "handle watcher" is started when the first message handler
is started, and stopped when the last message handler is stopped.

Messages arriving on _h_ are internally read and dispatched to matching
message handlers.  If multiple handlers match the message, the message
is dispatched to the most recently registered handler.

FLUX_MSGTYPE_REQUEST messages with no matching message handler
are automatically sent an ENOSYS response by the dispatcher.

`flux_msg_handler_destroy()` destroys a handler, after internally
stopping it.


SECURITY
--------

As described in RFC 12, Flux connectors authenticate each broker
connection, mapping it to a Flux userid and set of "roles" allocated
to that user.  This userid and rolemask is stamped on all messages
originating from the connection.

A message handler only receives a message if a bit-wise and of the message
rolemask and the message handler rolemask evaluates to a non-zero value,
or the message rolemask contains the FLUX_ROLE_OWNER (instance owner) role.

By default, the message handler rolemask is 0, but roles may be added
to the existing message handler rolemask with
`flux_msg_handler_allow_rolemask()` or removed from it with
`flux_msg_handler_deny_rolemask()`.  The FLUX_ROLE_OWNER bit position
is ignored in the message handler rolemask.

The following roles are defined in RFC 12:

FLUX_ROLE_OWNER::
The instance owner role has maximum privilege within the Flux instance.

FLUX_ROLE_USER::
The user role confers access, but not administrative privilege.

In addition, RFC 12 defines these symbolic rolemask values:

FLUX_ROLE_NONE::
The empty set.

FLUX_ROLE_ALL::
The set of all possible roles.

Other roles are yet to be defined.


CAVEATS
-------

FLUX_MSGTYPE_EVENT messages are received on the handle only as
requested by `flux_event_subscribe(3)`.

`flux-broker(1)` only routes FLUX_MSGTYPE_REQUEST messages to comms
modules according to their registered service name, which is the same as
the module name.  Other handle instances such as those on the local connector
cannot yet receive requests.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_msg_handler_create()` returns a flux_msg_handler_t object on success.
On error, NULL is returned, and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_get_reactor(3), flux_reactor_start(3), flux_msg_cmp(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 12: Flux Security Architecture]
