doc/man3/flux_kvs_txn_create.adoc, before:

flux_kvs_txn_create(3)
======================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_txn_create, flux_kvs_txn_destroy, flux_kvs_txn_put, flux_kvs_txn_pack, flux_kvs_txn_vpack, flux_kvs_txn_mkdir, flux_kvs_txn_unlink, flux_kvs_txn_symlink, flux_kvs_txn_put_raw, flux_kvs_txn_put_treeobj - operate on a KVS transaction object


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_kvs_txn_t *flux_kvs_txn_create (void);

 void flux_kvs_txn_destroy (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn);

 int flux_kvs_txn_put (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                       const char *key, const char *value);

 int flux_kvs_txn_pack (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                        const char *key, const char *fmt, ...);

 int flux_kvs_txn_vpack (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                         const char *key, const char *fmt, va_list ap);

 int flux_kvs_txn_mkdir (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                         const char *key);

 int flux_kvs_txn_unlink (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                          const char *key);

 int flux_kvs_txn_symlink (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                           const char *key, const char *target);

 int flux_kvs_txn_put_raw (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                           const char *key, const void *data, int len);

 int flux_kvs_txn_put_treeobj (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                               const char *key, const char *treeobj);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

The Flux Key Value Store is a general purpose distributed storage
service used by Flux services.

`flux_kvs_txn_create()` creates a KVS transaction object that may be
passed to `flux_kvs_commit(3)` or `flux_kvs_fence(3)`.  The transaction
consists of a list of operations that are applied to the KVS together,
in order.  The entire transaction either succeeds or fails.  After commit
or fence, the object must be destroyed with `flux_kvs_txn_destroy()`.

Each function below adds a single operation to _txn_.  _key_ is a
hierarchical path name with period (".") used as path separator.
When the transaction is committed, any existing keys or path components
that are in conflict with the requested operation are overwritten.

`flux_kvs_txn_put()` sets _key_ to a NULL terminated string _value_.
_value_ may be NULL indicating that an empty value should be stored.

`flux_kvs_txn_pack()` sets _key_ to a NULL terminated string encoded
from a JSON object built with `json_pack()` style arguments (see below).
`flux_kvs_txn_vpack()` is a variant that accepts a _va_list_ argument.

`flux_kvs_txn_mkdir()` sets _key_ to an empty directory.

`flux_kvs_txn_unlink()` removes _key_.  If _key_ is a directory,
all its contents are removed as well.

`flux_kvs_txn_symlink()` sets _key_ to a symbolic link pointing to _target_,
another key.  _target_ need not exist.

`flux_kvs_txn_put_raw()` sets _key_ to a value containing raw data
referred to by _data_ of length _len_.

`flux_kvs_txn_put_treeobj()` sets _key_ to an RFC 11 object, encoded
as a JSON string.


FLAGS
-----

The _flags_ argument is currently unused and must be zero.


include::JSON_PACK.adoc[]


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_txn_create()` returns a `flux_kvs_txn_t` object on success,
or NULL on failure with errno set appropriately.

`flux_kvs_txn_put()`, `flux_kvs_txn_pack()`, `flux_kvs_txn_mkdir()`,
`flux_kvs_txn_unlink()`, `flux_kvs_txn_symlink()`, and `flux_kvs_txn_put_raw()`
returns 0 on success, or -1 on failure with errno set appropriately.

ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_commit(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_11.adoc[RFC 11: Key Value Store Tree Object Format v1]

Commit message:

common/libkvs/txn: Add FLUX_KVS_APPEND flag
Update txn_encode_op, flux_kvs_txn_put, and flux_kvs_txn_put_raw
to allow user to set FLUX_KVS_APPEND flag.

Add unit tests for corner case tests to bad input in txn_encode_op.

Update documentation appropriately.

doc/man3/flux_kvs_txn_create.adoc, after:

flux_kvs_txn_create(3)
======================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_txn_create, flux_kvs_txn_destroy, flux_kvs_txn_put, flux_kvs_txn_pack, flux_kvs_txn_vpack, flux_kvs_txn_mkdir, flux_kvs_txn_unlink, flux_kvs_txn_symlink, flux_kvs_txn_put_raw, flux_kvs_txn_put_treeobj - operate on a KVS transaction object


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_kvs_txn_t *flux_kvs_txn_create (void);

 void flux_kvs_txn_destroy (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn);

 int flux_kvs_txn_put (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                       const char *key, const char *value);

 int flux_kvs_txn_pack (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                        const char *key, const char *fmt, ...);

 int flux_kvs_txn_vpack (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                         const char *key, const char *fmt, va_list ap);

 int flux_kvs_txn_mkdir (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                         const char *key);

 int flux_kvs_txn_unlink (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                          const char *key);

 int flux_kvs_txn_symlink (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                           const char *key, const char *target);

 int flux_kvs_txn_put_raw (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                           const char *key, const void *data, int len);

 int flux_kvs_txn_put_treeobj (flux_kvs_txn_t *txn, int flags,
                               const char *key, const char *treeobj);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

The Flux Key Value Store is a general purpose distributed storage
service used by Flux services.

`flux_kvs_txn_create()` creates a KVS transaction object that may be
passed to `flux_kvs_commit(3)` or `flux_kvs_fence(3)`.  The transaction
consists of a list of operations that are applied to the KVS together,
in order.  The entire transaction either succeeds or fails.  After commit
or fence, the object must be destroyed with `flux_kvs_txn_destroy()`.

Each function below adds a single operation to _txn_.  _key_ is a
hierarchical path name with period (".") used as path separator.
When the transaction is committed, any existing keys or path components
that are in conflict with the requested operation are overwritten.
_flags_ can modify the request as described below.

`flux_kvs_txn_put()` sets _key_ to a NULL terminated string _value_.
_value_ may be NULL indicating that an empty value should be stored.

`flux_kvs_txn_pack()` sets _key_ to a NULL terminated string encoded
from a JSON object built with `json_pack()` style arguments (see below).
`flux_kvs_txn_vpack()` is a variant that accepts a _va_list_ argument.

`flux_kvs_txn_mkdir()` sets _key_ to an empty directory.

`flux_kvs_txn_unlink()` removes _key_.  If _key_ is a directory,
all its contents are removed as well.

`flux_kvs_txn_symlink()` sets _key_ to a symbolic link pointing to _target_,
another key.  _target_ need not exist.

`flux_kvs_txn_put_raw()` sets _key_ to a value containing raw data
referred to by _data_ of length _len_.

`flux_kvs_txn_put_treeobj()` sets _key_ to an RFC 11 object, encoded
as a JSON string.


FLAGS
-----

The following are valid bits in a _flags_ mask passed as an argument
to `flux_kvs_txn_put()` or `flux_kvs_txn_put_raw()`.

FLUX_KVS_APPEND::
Append value instead of overwriting it.  If the key does not exist,
it will be created with the value as the initial value.


include::JSON_PACK.adoc[]


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_txn_create()` returns a `flux_kvs_txn_t` object on success,
or NULL on failure with errno set appropriately.

`flux_kvs_txn_put()`, `flux_kvs_txn_pack()`, `flux_kvs_txn_mkdir()`,
`flux_kvs_txn_unlink()`, `flux_kvs_txn_symlink()`, and `flux_kvs_txn_put_raw()`
returns 0 on success, or -1 on failure with errno set appropriately.

ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_commit(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_11.adoc[RFC 11: Key Value Store Tree Object Format v1]
