doc/man3/flux_response_decode.adoc, before:

flux_response_decode(3)
=======================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_response_decode, flux_response_decode_raw - decode a Flux response message


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 int flux_response_decode (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                           const char **topic,
                           const char **s);

 int flux_response_decode_raw (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                               const char **topic,
                               const void **data, int *len);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_response_decode()` decodes a response message _msg_.

_topic_, if non-NULL, will be set to the message's topic string. The
storage for this string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.

_s_, if non-NULL, will be set to the message's NULL-terminated string payload.
If no payload exists, it is set to NULL.  The storage for this
string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.

`flux_response_decode_raw()` decodes a response message with a raw payload,
setting _data_ and _len_ to the payload data and length. The storage for
the raw payload belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.


RETURN VALUE
------------

These functions return 0 on success.  On error, -1 is returned, and
errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
The _msg_ argument was NULL.

EPROTO::
Message decoding failed, such as due to incorrect message type,
missing topic string, etc..


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_request_encode(3), flux_rpc(3)

Commit message:

doc/flux_response_decode(3): add decode_error
Add entry and stub page for flux_response_decode_error()

doc/man3/flux_response_decode.adoc, after:

flux_response_decode(3)
=======================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_response_decode, flux_response_decode_raw, flux_response_decode_error - decode a Flux response message


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 int flux_response_decode (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                           const char **topic,
                           const char **s);

 int flux_response_decode_raw (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                               const char **topic,
                               const void **data, int *len);

 int flux_response_decode_error (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                                 const char *errstr);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_response_decode()` decodes a response message _msg_.

_topic_, if non-NULL, will be set to the message's topic string. The
storage for this string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.

_s_, if non-NULL, will be set to the message's NULL-terminated string payload.
If no payload exists, it is set to NULL.  The storage for this
string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.

`flux_response_decode_raw()` decodes a response message with a raw payload,
setting _data_ and _len_ to the payload data and length. The storage for
the raw payload belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.

`flux_response_decode_error()` decodes an optional error string included
with an error response.  This fails if the response is not an error,
or does not include an error string payload.


RETURN VALUE
------------

These functions return 0 on success.  On error, -1 is returned, and
errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
The _msg_ argument was NULL.

EPROTO::
Message decoding failed, such as due to incorrect message type,
missing topic string, etc..

ENOENT::
`flux_response_decode_error()` was called on a message with no
error response payload.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_request_encode(3), flux_rpc(3)
