doc/man3/flux_rpc_raw.adoc, before:

flux_rpc_raw(3)
===============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_rpc_raw, flux_rpc_get_raw - perform a remote procedure call to a Flux service using raw payloads


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_rpc_t *flux_rpc_raw (flux_t *h, const char *topic,
                           const void *data_in, int length_in,
                           uint32_t nodeid_in, int flags);

 int flux_rpc_get_raw (flux_rpc_t *rpc, uint32_t *nodeid_out,
                       void *data_out, int *length_out);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_rpc_raw()` encodes and sends a request message, comprising the first
half of a remote procedure call (RPC).  A flux_rpc_t object is returned
which can be passed to `flux_rpc_get_raw()` to obtain the decoded response
message, comprising the second half of the RPC.  The flux_rpc_t should
finally be disposed of using `flux_rpc_destroy()`.

The raw RPC functions may be paired with the JSON RPC functions
`flux_rpc(3)` and `flux_rpc_get(3)`.  That is, it is valid to send
a JSON request payload and receive a raw response payload, or the reverse.

_topic_ must be set to a topic string representing the Flux
service that will handle the request.

_data_in_, if non-NULL, points to a payload of size _length_in_.
If NULL, the request will be sent without a payload.

_nodeid_in_ affects request routing, and must be set to one of the following
values:

FLUX_NODEID_ANY::
The request is routed to the first matching service instance.

FLUX_NODEID_UPSTREAM::
The request is routed to the first matching service instance,
skipping over the sending rank.

integer::
The request is routed to a specific rank.

_flags_ may be zero or:

FLUX_RPC_NORESPONSE::
No response is expected.  The request will not be assigned a matchtag,
and the flux_rpc_t returned by `flux_rpc()` may be immediately destroyed.

`flux_rpc_get_raw()` blocks until a matching response is received, then
decodes the result.  For asynchronous response handling, see flux_rpc_then(3).

_data_out_ and _length_out_, which must be non-NULL, are assigned a pointer
to the response payload and its length.  If there is no response payload,
they will be sent to NULL and zero, respectively.  Any storage associated
with _data_out_ belongs to the flux_rpc_t object and is invalidated when
that object is destroyed.

_nodeid_out_, if non-NULL, is set to the _nodeid_in_ argument given
to `flux_rpc_raw()`.  This is primarily useful with `flux_rpc_multi(3)`.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_rpc_raw()` returns a flux_rpc_t object on success.  On error, NULL
is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_rpc_get_raw()` returns zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOSYS::
Handle has no send operation.

EINVAL::
Some arguments were invalid.

EPROTO::
A protocol error was encountered.


CAVEATS
-------

Although `flux_rpc_get_raw()` can be used with `flux_rpc_multi()`,
there is no `flux_rpc_multi_raw()`.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_rpc(3), flux_rpc_then(3), flux_rpc_multi(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 6: Flux
Remote Procedure Call Protocol]

Commit message:

doc/flux_rpc_raw(3): fix prototype, drop multi refs
Fix outdated flux_rpc_get_raw() function prototype (drop
nodeid paramter).

Drop references to flux_rpc_multi() references.

Reword the description to be a little less like a cut and
paste from flux_rpc(3).

doc/man3/flux_rpc_raw.adoc, after:

flux_rpc_raw(3)
===============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_rpc_raw, flux_rpc_get_raw - perform a remote procedure call to a Flux service using raw payloads


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_rpc_t *flux_rpc_raw (flux_t *h, const char *topic,
                           const void *data_in, int length_in,
                           uint32_t nodeid_in, int flags);

 int flux_rpc_get_raw (flux_rpc_t *rpc, void *data_out, int *length_out);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_rpc_raw()` and `flux_rpc_get_raw()` are analogs of the JSON RPC
functions `flux_rpc()` and `flux_rpc_get()` that deal in opaque payloads.
These functions may be intermixed;  that is, it is valid to send
a JSON request payload and receive a raw response payload, or the reverse.

_topic_ must be set to a topic string representing the Flux
service that will handle the request.

_data_in_, if non-NULL, points to a payload of size _length_in_.
If NULL, the request will be sent without a payload.

_nodeid_in_ affects request routing, and must be set to one of the following
values:

FLUX_NODEID_ANY::
The request is routed to the first matching service instance.

FLUX_NODEID_UPSTREAM::
The request is routed to the first matching service instance,
skipping over the sending rank.

integer::
The request is routed to a specific rank.

_flags_ may be zero or:

FLUX_RPC_NORESPONSE::
No response is expected.  The request will not be assigned a matchtag,
and the flux_rpc_t returned by `flux_rpc()` may be immediately destroyed.

`flux_rpc_get_raw()` blocks until a matching response is received, then
decodes the result.  For asynchronous response handling, see flux_rpc_then(3).

_data_out_ and _length_out_, which must be non-NULL, are assigned a pointer
to the response payload and its length.  If there is no response payload,
they will be sent to NULL and zero, respectively.  Any storage associated
with _data_out_ belongs to the flux_rpc_t object and is invalidated when
that object is destroyed.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_rpc_raw()` returns a flux_rpc_t object on success.  On error, NULL
is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

`flux_rpc_get_raw()` returns zero on success.  On error, -1 is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOSYS::
Handle has no send operation.

EINVAL::
Some arguments were invalid.

EPROTO::
A protocol error was encountered.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_rpc(3), flux_rpc_then(3)

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_6.adoc[RFC 6: Flux
Remote Procedure Call Protocol]
