doc/man3/flux_msg_handler_addvec.adoc, before:

flux_msg_handler_addvec(3)
==========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_msg_handler_addvec,
flux_msg_handler_delvec - bulk add/remove message handlers


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 struct flux_msg_handler_spec {
     int typemask;
     const char *topic_glob;
     flux_msg_handler_f cb;
     uint32_t rolemask;
 };

 int flux_msg_handler_addvec (flux_t *h,
                              const struct flux_msg_handler_spec tab[],
                              void *arg,
                              flux_msg_handler_t **handlers[]);

 void flux_msg_handler_delvec (flux_msg_handler_t *handlers[]);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_msg_handler_addvec()` creates and starts an array of message handlers,
terminated by FLUX_MSGHANDLER_TABLE_END.  The new message handler objects
are assigned to an internally allocated array, returned in _handlers_.
The last entry in the array is set to NULL.

`flux_msg_handler_delvec()` stops and destroys an array of message handlers
returned from `flux_msg_handler_addvec()`.

These functions are convenience functions which call
`flux_msg_handler_create(3)`, `flux_msg_handler_start(3)`; and
`flux_msg_handler_stop(3)`, `flux_msg_handler_destroy(3)` on each element
of the array, respectively.

If `flux_msg_handler_addvec()` encounters an error creating a message
handler, all previously created message handlers in the array are destroyed
before an error is returned.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_msg_handler_addvec()` returns zero on success.
On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_msg_handler_create(3)

Commit message:

doc/flux_msg_handler_addvec(3): add security section
Add note about the 'rolemask' member of struct flux_msg_handler_spec,
referring back to the SECTION section in flux_msg_handler_create(3).

doc/man3/flux_msg_handler_addvec.adoc, after:

flux_msg_handler_addvec(3)
==========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_msg_handler_addvec,
flux_msg_handler_delvec - bulk add/remove message handlers


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 struct flux_msg_handler_spec {
     int typemask;
     const char *topic_glob;
     flux_msg_handler_f cb;
     uint32_t rolemask;
 };

 int flux_msg_handler_addvec (flux_t *h,
                              const struct flux_msg_handler_spec tab[],
                              void *arg,
                              flux_msg_handler_t **handlers[]);

 void flux_msg_handler_delvec (flux_msg_handler_t *handlers[]);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_msg_handler_addvec()` creates and starts an array of message handlers,
terminated by FLUX_MSGHANDLER_TABLE_END.  The new message handler objects
are assigned to an internally allocated array, returned in _handlers_.
The last entry in the array is set to NULL.

`flux_msg_handler_delvec()` stops and destroys an array of message handlers
returned from `flux_msg_handler_addvec()`.

These functions are convenience functions which call
`flux_msg_handler_create(3)`, `flux_msg_handler_start(3)`; and
`flux_msg_handler_stop(3)`, `flux_msg_handler_destroy(3)` on each element
of the array, respectively.

If `flux_msg_handler_addvec()` encounters an error creating a message
handler, all previously created message handlers in the array are destroyed
before an error is returned.


SECURITY
--------

The _rolemask_ member of _struct flux_msg_handler_spec_ is passed
to `flux_msg_handler_allow_rolemask()`.  If no additional roles besides the
instance owner are to be allowed, set _rolemask_ to zero.

See the SECURITY section of `flux_msg_handler_create(3)` for a description
of message handler security.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_msg_handler_addvec()` returns zero on success.
On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_msg_handler_create(3)
