doc/man3/flux_kvs_getroot.adoc, before:

flux_kvs_getroot(3)
===================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_getroot, flux_kvs_getroot_get_treeobj, flux_kvs_getroot_get_blobref, flux_kvs_getroot_get_sequence, flux_kvs_getroot_get_owner, flux_kvs_getroot_cancel - look up KVS root hash


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_getroot (flux_t *h,
                                  const char *ns,
                                  int flags);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_treeobj (flux_future_t *f,
                                   const char **treeobj);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_blobref (flux_future_t *f,
                                   const char **blobref);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_sequence (flux_future_t *f,
                                    int *seq);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_owner (flux_future_t *f,
                                 uint32_t *owner);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_cancel (flux_future_t *f);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_getroot()` sends a request via handle _h_ to the `kvs` or `kvs-watch`
service to look up the current root hash for namespace _ns_.  A `flux_future_t`
object is returned, which acts as handle for synchronization and container
for the response.  _flags_ modifies the request as described below.

Upon future fulfillment, these functions can decode the result:

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_treeobj()` obtains the root hash in the form
of an RFC 11 _dirref_ treeobj, suitable to be passed to `flux_kvs_lookupat(3)`.

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_blobref()` obtains the RFC 10 blobref, suitable to
be passed to `flux_content_load(3)`.

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_sequence()` retrieves the monotonic sequence number
for the root.

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_owner()` retrieves the namespace owner.

If the `FLUX_KVS_WATCH` flag is used, the current root is returned immediately.
Thereafter, a new response is returned each time the root is updated.
`flux_future_reset()` must be called after each response to destroy the
current result value and re-arm the future.  The stream of responses may
be stopped at any time with `flux_kvs_getroot_cancel()`, after which
the caller should wait for the future to be fulfilled with an ENODATA error.
After an error, the future may be safely destroyed.


FLAGS
-----

The following are valid bits in the _flags_ mask passed as an argument
to `flux_kvs_lookup()`:

FLUX_KVS_WATCH::
The current root is returned immediately.  Thereafter, a new response is
returned each time the root is updated, as described above.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_getroot()` returns a `flux_future_t` on success, or NULL on
failure with errno set appropriately.

The other functions return zero on success, or -1 on failure with errno
set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EPROTO::
A request was malformed.

ENOSYS::
The kvs or kvs-watch module is not loaded.

ENOTSUP::
An unknown namespace was requested or namespace was deleted.

EPERM::
The requesting user is not permitted to access the requested namespace.

ENODATA::
A stream of responses has been terminated by a call to
`flux_kvs_getroot_cancel()`.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup (3), flux_future_get (3), flux_content_load (3).

Commit message:

common/libkvs: Remove getroot watch functionality
Remove all FLUX_KVS_WATCH functionality from getroot.  Remove
relevant unit tests.  Remove flux_kvs_getroot_cancel() function.

doc/man3/flux_kvs_getroot.adoc, after:

flux_kvs_getroot(3)
===================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_getroot, flux_kvs_getroot_get_treeobj, flux_kvs_getroot_get_blobref, flux_kvs_getroot_get_sequence, flux_kvs_getroot_get_owner, flux_kvs_getroot_cancel - look up KVS root hash


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 flux_future_t *flux_kvs_getroot (flux_t *h,
                                  const char *ns,
                                  int flags);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_treeobj (flux_future_t *f,
                                   const char **treeobj);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_blobref (flux_future_t *f,
                                   const char **blobref);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_sequence (flux_future_t *f,
                                    int *seq);

 int flux_kvs_getroot_get_owner (flux_future_t *f,
                                 uint32_t *owner);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_getroot()` sends a request via handle _h_ to the `kvs`
service to look up the current root hash for namespace _ns_.  A `flux_future_t`
object is returned, which acts as handle for synchronization and container
for the response.  _flags_ is currently unused and should be set to 0.

Upon future fulfillment, these functions can decode the result:

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_treeobj()` obtains the root hash in the form
of an RFC 11 _dirref_ treeobj, suitable to be passed to `flux_kvs_lookupat(3)`.

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_blobref()` obtains the RFC 10 blobref, suitable to
be passed to `flux_content_load(3)`.

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_sequence()` retrieves the monotonic sequence number
for the root.

`flux_kvs_getroot_get_owner()` retrieves the namespace owner.


FLAGS
-----

The _flags_ mask is currently unused and should be set to 0.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_getroot()` returns a `flux_future_t` on success, or NULL on
failure with errno set appropriately.

The other functions return zero on success, or -1 on failure with errno
set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

EPROTO::
A request was malformed.

ENOSYS::
The kvs module is not loaded.

ENOTSUP::
An unknown namespace was requested or namespace was deleted.

EPERM::
The requesting user is not permitted to access the requested namespace.

ENODATA::
A stream of responses has been terminated by a call to
`flux_kvs_getroot_cancel()`.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup (3), flux_future_get (3), flux_content_load (3).
