doc/man3/flux_event_decode.adoc, before:

flux_event_decode(3)
====================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_event_decode, flux_event_decodef, flux_event_encode, flux_event_encodef 
 - encode/decode a Flux event message


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 int flux_event_decode (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                        const char **topic,
                        const char **json_str);

 int flux_event_decodef (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                         const char **topic,
                         const char *fmt, ...);

 flux_msg_t *flux_event_encode (const char *topic,
                                const char *json_str);

 flux_msg_t *flux_event_encodef (const char *topic,
                                 const char *fmt, ...);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_event_decode()` decodes a Flux event message _msg_.

_topic_, if non-NULL, will be set the message's topic string. The storage
for this string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.

_json_str_, if non-NULL, will be set to the message's JSON payload. The
storage for this string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.
If non-NULL, decoding fails if the message doesn't have a JSON payload.
If NULL, decoding fails if the message does have a JSON payload.

`flux_event_decodef()` decodes a Flux event message with a JSON payload as
above, parsing the payload using variable arguments with a format string
in the style of jansson's `json_unpack()` (used internally). Decoding fails
if the message doesn't have a JSON payload.

`flux_event_encode()` encodes a Flux event message with topic string _topic_
and optional JSON payload _json_str_.  The newly constructed message that
is returned must be destroyed with `flux_msg_destroy()`.

`flux_event_decodef()` decodes a Flux event message with a JSON payload as
above, parsing the payload using variable arguments with a format string
in the style of jansson's `json_unpack()` (used internally). Decoding fails
if the message doesn't have a JSON payload.

Events propagated to all subscribers.  Events will not be received
without a matching subscription established using `flux_event_subscribe()`.


RETURN VALUE
------------

Decoding functions return 0 on success.  On error, -1 is returned, and
errno is set appropriately.

Encoding functions return a message on success.  On error, NULL is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
The _msg_ argument was NULL or there was a problem encoding.

ENOMEM::
Memory was unavailable.

EPROTO::
Message decoding failed, such as due to missing or unexpected payload,
incorrect message type, missing topic string, etc..


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_event_subscribe(3)

http://jansson.readthedocs.io/en/2.7/apiref.html#parsing-and-validating-values[Jansson API: Parsing and Validating Values]

http://jansson.readthedocs.io/en/2.7/apiref.html#building-values[Jansson API: Building Values]

Commit message:

doc: add json_pack/unpack sections where needed
Create shared asciidoc sections for json_pack and json_unpack
format specifiers.  Descriptions were borrowed pretty much verbatim
from the jansson 2.6 API manual (with citation).

Include these in the docs that introduced json_pack/unpack based
API functions.

Move Jansson API reference citations to the shared sections and
explicitly reference version 2.6.  Hopefully this will avoid confusion
about which jansson features can be used in Flux API functions built on
json_pack()/json_unpack().

doc/man3/flux_event_decode.adoc, after:

flux_event_decode(3)
====================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_event_decode, flux_event_decodef, flux_event_encode, flux_event_encodef 
 - encode/decode a Flux event message


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 int flux_event_decode (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                        const char **topic,
                        const char **json_str);

 int flux_event_decodef (const flux_msg_t *msg,
                         const char **topic,
                         const char *fmt, ...);

 flux_msg_t *flux_event_encode (const char *topic,
                                const char *json_str);

 flux_msg_t *flux_event_encodef (const char *topic,
                                 const char *fmt, ...);


DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_event_decode()` decodes a Flux event message _msg_.

_topic_, if non-NULL, will be set the message's topic string. The storage
for this string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.

_json_str_, if non-NULL, will be set to the message's JSON payload. The
storage for this string belongs to _msg_ and should not be freed.
If non-NULL, decoding fails if the message doesn't have a JSON payload.
If NULL, decoding fails if the message does have a JSON payload.

`flux_event_decodef()` decodes a Flux event message with a JSON payload as
above, parsing the payload using variable arguments with a format string
in the style of jansson's `json_unpack()` (used internally). Decoding fails
if the message doesn't have a JSON payload.

`flux_event_encode()` encodes a Flux event message with topic string _topic_
and optional JSON payload _json_str_.  The newly constructed message that
is returned must be destroyed with `flux_msg_destroy()`.

`flux_event_encodef()` encodes a Flux event message with a JSON payload as
above, encoding the payload using variable arguments with a format string
in the style of jansson's `json_unpack()` (used internally). Decoding fails
if the message doesn't have a JSON payload.

Events propagated to all subscribers.  Events will not be received
without a matching subscription established using `flux_event_subscribe()`.

include::JSON_PACK.adoc[]


include::JSON_UNPACK.adoc[]


RETURN VALUE
------------

Decoding functions return 0 on success.  On error, -1 is returned, and
errno is set appropriately.

Encoding functions return a message on success.  On error, NULL is returned,
and errno is set appropriately.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
The _msg_ argument was NULL or there was a problem encoding.

ENOMEM::
Memory was unavailable.

EPROTO::
Message decoding failed, such as due to missing or unexpected payload,
incorrect message type, missing topic string, etc..


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_event_subscribe(3)
