doc/man3/flux_kvs_set_namespace.adoc, before:

flux_kvs_set_namespace(3)
=========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_set_namespace, flux_kvs_get_namespace - set/get KVS namespace


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 int flux_kvs_set_namespace (flux_t *h, const char *namespace);

 const char *flux_kvs_get_namespace (flux_t *h);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_set_namespace()` sets the KVS namespace to use for all
KVS operations within a flux handle.  By setting a KVS namespace
in the flux handle, this namespace will override any KVS namespace
specified in the environment variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.

`flux_kvs_get_namespace()` will determine the current namespace to
use, whether set via `flux_kvs_set_namespace()` or the environment
variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.  If neither is set, the default
namespace of "primary" will be used.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_set_namespace()` returns 0 on success, or -1 on failure.
`flux_kvs_get_namespace()` returns namespace on success, or NULL on
failure.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup(3), flux_kvs_commit(3)

Commit message:

doc/: Add namespace prefix documentation

doc/man3/flux_kvs_set_namespace.adoc, after:

flux_kvs_set_namespace(3)
=========================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux_kvs_set_namespace, flux_kvs_get_namespace - set/get KVS namespace


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/core.h>

 int flux_kvs_set_namespace (flux_t *h, const char *namespace);

 const char *flux_kvs_get_namespace (flux_t *h);

DESCRIPTION
-----------

`flux_kvs_set_namespace()` sets the KVS namespace to use for all
KVS operations within a flux handle.  By setting a KVS namespace
in the flux handle, this namespace will override any KVS namespace
specified in the environment variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.  However,
a namespace specified via a key prefix will override this setting.

`flux_kvs_get_namespace()` will determine the current namespace to
use, whether set via `flux_kvs_set_namespace()` or the environment
variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.  If neither is set, the default
namespace of "primary" will be used.


RETURN VALUE
------------

`flux_kvs_set_namespace()` returns 0 on success, or -1 on failure.
`flux_kvs_get_namespace()` returns namespace on success, or NULL on
failure.


ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One of the arguments was invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
---------
flux_kvs_lookup(3), flux_kvs_commit(3)
