doc/man3/idset_create.adoc, before:

idset_create(3)
===============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
idset_create, idset_destroy, idset_encode, idset_decode, idset_set, idset_clear, idset_first, idset_next, idset_count - Manipulate numerically sorted sets of non-negative integers


SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/idset.h>

 struct idset *idset_create (size_t slots, int flags);

 void idset_destroy (struct idset *idset);

 struct idset *idset_copy (const struct idset *idset);

 struct idset *idset_decode (const char *s);

 char *idset_encode (const struct idset *idset, int flags);

 int idset_set (struct idset *idset, unsigned int id);

 int idset_range_set (struct idset *idset,
                      unsigned int lo, unsigned int hi);

 int idset_clear (struct idset *idset, unsigned int id);

 int idset_range_clear (struct idset *idset,
                        unsigned int lo, unsigned int hi)

 bool idset_test (const struct idset *idset, unsigned int id);

 unsigned int idset_first (const struct idset *idset);

 unsigned int idset_next (const struct idset *idset, unsigned int prev);

 unsigned int idset_last (const struct idset *idset)

 size_t idset_count (const struct idset *idset);


USAGE
-----

cc [flags] files -lflux-idset [libraries]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

An idset is a set of numerically sorted, non-negative integers.
It is internally represented as a Van Embde Boas (or vEB) tree.
Functionally it behaves like a bitmap, and has space efficiency
comparable to a bitmap, but performs operations (insert, delete,
lookup, findNext, findPrevious) in O(log(m)) time, where pow (2,m)
is the number of slots in the idset.

`idset_create()` creates an idset.  'slots' specifies the highest
numbered 'id' it can hold, plus one.  The size is fixed unless
'flags' specify otherwise (see FLAGS below).

`idset_destroy()` destroys an idset.

`idset_copy()` copies an idset.

`idset_decode ()` creates an idset from a string 's'.  The string may
have been produced by `idset_encode()`.  It must consist of comma-separated
non-negative integer ids, and may also contain hyphenated ranges.
If enclosed in square brackets, the brackets are ignored.  Some examples
of valid input strings are:

  1,2,5,4

  1-4,7,9-10

  42

  [99-101]

`idset_encode()` creates a string from 'idset'.  The string contains
a comma-separated list of ids, potentially modified by 'flags'
(see FLAGS below).

`idset_set()` and `idset_clear()` set or clear 'id'.

`idset_range_set()` and `idset_range_clear()` set or clear an inclusive
range of ids, from 'lo' to 'hi'.

`idset_test()` returns true if 'id' is set, false if not.

`idset_first()` and `idset_next()` can be used to iterate over ids
in the set, returning IDSET_INVALID_ID at the end.  `idset_last()`
returns the last (highest) id, or IDSET_INVALID_ID if the set is
empty.

`idset_count()` returns the number of ids in the set.


FLAGS
-----

IDSET_FLAG_AUTOGROW::
Valid for `idset_create()` only.  If set, the idset will grow to
accommodate any id inserted into it. The internal vEB tree is doubled
in size until until the new id can be inserted.  Resizing is a costly
operation that requires all ids in the old tree to be inserted into
the new one.

IDSET_FLAG_BRACKETS::
Valid for `idset_encode()` only.  If set, the encoded string will be
enclosed in brackets, unless the idset is a singleton (contains only
one id).

IDSET_FLAG_RANGE::
Valid for `idset_encode()` only.  If set, any consecutive ids are
compressed into hyphenated ranges in the encoded string.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`idset_create()`, `idset_encode()`, and `idset_copy()` return an
idset on success which must be freed with `idset_destroy()`.
On error, NULL is returned with errno set.

`idset_decode()` returns a string on success which must be freed
with `free()`.  On error, NULL is returned with errno set.

`idset_first()`, `idset_next()`, and `idset_last()` return an id,
or IDSET_INVALID_ID if no id is available.

Other functions return 0 on success, or -1 on error with errno set.

ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One or more arguments were invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_22.adoc[RFC 22: Idset String Representation]

Commit message:

doc: add idset_equal(3) to idset_create manpage
Document the idset_equal(3) function call.

Add a note to Makefile.am that the manpage stub idset_equal.3
can not be generated because it exceeds the max 9 stubs for
asciidoc.

doc/man3/idset_create.adoc, after:

idset_create(3)
===============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
idset_create, idset_destroy, idset_encode, idset_decode, idset_set, idset_clear, idset_first, idset_next, idset_count, idset_equal - Manipulate numerically sorted sets of non-negative integers

SYNOPSIS
--------
 #include <flux/idset.h>

 struct idset *idset_create (size_t slots, int flags);

 void idset_destroy (struct idset *idset);

 struct idset *idset_copy (const struct idset *idset);

 struct idset *idset_decode (const char *s);

 char *idset_encode (const struct idset *idset, int flags);

 int idset_set (struct idset *idset, unsigned int id);

 int idset_range_set (struct idset *idset,
                      unsigned int lo, unsigned int hi);

 int idset_clear (struct idset *idset, unsigned int id);

 int idset_range_clear (struct idset *idset,
                        unsigned int lo, unsigned int hi)

 bool idset_test (const struct idset *idset, unsigned int id);

 unsigned int idset_first (const struct idset *idset);

 unsigned int idset_next (const struct idset *idset, unsigned int prev);

 unsigned int idset_last (const struct idset *idset)

 size_t idset_count (const struct idset *idset);

 bool idset_equal (const struct idset *set1, const struct idset *set2);


USAGE
-----

cc [flags] files -lflux-idset [libraries]

DESCRIPTION
-----------

An idset is a set of numerically sorted, non-negative integers.
It is internally represented as a Van Embde Boas (or vEB) tree.
Functionally it behaves like a bitmap, and has space efficiency
comparable to a bitmap, but performs operations (insert, delete,
lookup, findNext, findPrevious) in O(log(m)) time, where pow (2,m)
is the number of slots in the idset.

`idset_create()` creates an idset.  'slots' specifies the highest
numbered 'id' it can hold, plus one.  The size is fixed unless
'flags' specify otherwise (see FLAGS below).

`idset_destroy()` destroys an idset.

`idset_copy()` copies an idset.

`idset_decode ()` creates an idset from a string 's'.  The string may
have been produced by `idset_encode()`.  It must consist of comma-separated
non-negative integer ids, and may also contain hyphenated ranges.
If enclosed in square brackets, the brackets are ignored.  Some examples
of valid input strings are:

  1,2,5,4

  1-4,7,9-10

  42

  [99-101]

`idset_encode()` creates a string from 'idset'.  The string contains
a comma-separated list of ids, potentially modified by 'flags'
(see FLAGS below).

`idset_set()` and `idset_clear()` set or clear 'id'.

`idset_range_set()` and `idset_range_clear()` set or clear an inclusive
range of ids, from 'lo' to 'hi'.

`idset_test()` returns true if 'id' is set, false if not.

`idset_first()` and `idset_next()` can be used to iterate over ids
in the set, returning IDSET_INVALID_ID at the end.  `idset_last()`
returns the last (highest) id, or IDSET_INVALID_ID if the set is
empty.

`idset_count()` returns the number of ids in the set.

`idset_equal()` returns true if the two idset objects 'set1' and 'set2'
are equal sets, i.e. the sets contain the same set of integers.


FLAGS
-----

IDSET_FLAG_AUTOGROW::
Valid for `idset_create()` only.  If set, the idset will grow to
accommodate any id inserted into it. The internal vEB tree is doubled
in size until until the new id can be inserted.  Resizing is a costly
operation that requires all ids in the old tree to be inserted into
the new one.

IDSET_FLAG_BRACKETS::
Valid for `idset_encode()` only.  If set, the encoded string will be
enclosed in brackets, unless the idset is a singleton (contains only
one id).

IDSET_FLAG_RANGE::
Valid for `idset_encode()` only.  If set, any consecutive ids are
compressed into hyphenated ranges in the encoded string.

RETURN VALUE
------------

`idset_create()`, `idset_encode()`, and `idset_copy()` return an
idset on success which must be freed with `idset_destroy()`.
On error, NULL is returned with errno set.

`idset_decode()` returns a string on success which must be freed
with `free()`.  On error, NULL is returned with errno set.

`idset_first()`, `idset_next()`, and `idset_last()` return an id,
or IDSET_INVALID_ID if no id is available.

`idset_equal()` returns true if 'set1' and 'set2' are equal sets,
or false if they are not equal, or either argument is 'NULL'.

Other functions return 0 on success, or -1 on error with errno set.

ERRORS
------

EINVAL::
One or more arguments were invalid.

ENOMEM::
Out of memory.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------

https://github.com/flux-framework/rfc/blob/master/spec_22.adoc[RFC 22: Idset String Representation]
