MAINTAINERS.md, before:

This document contains a list of the Maintainers of this github repository.
For further information on the role of Maintainer and how to contribute
to this project, please refer to [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Current Maintainers

| Maintainer         | GitHub ID                                             | Affiliation |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Al Chu             | [chu11](https://github.com/chu11)                     | LLNL        |
| Chris Dunlap       | [dun](https://github.com/dun)                         | LLNL        |
| Christopher Moussa | [cmoussa1](https://github.com/cmoussa1)               | LLNL        |
| Elsa Gonsiorowski  | [gonsie](https://github.com/gonsie)                   | LLNL        |
| James Corbett      | [jameshcorbett](https://github.com/jameshcorbett)     | LLNL        |
| Jim Garlick        | [garlick](https://github.com/garlick)                 | LLNL        |
| Jae-seung Yeom     | [JaeseungYeom](https://github.com/JaeseungYeom)       | LLNL        |
| Mark Grondona      | [grondo](https://github.com/grondo)                   | LLNL        |
| Daniel Milroy      | [milroy](https://github.com/milroy)                   | LLNL        |
| Tapasya Patki      | [tpatki](https://github.com/tpatki)                   | LLNL        |
| Tom Scogland       | [trws](https://github.com/trws)                       | LLNL        |
| Vanessa Sochat     | [vsoch](https://github.com/vsoch)                     | LLNL        |
| Becky Springmeyer  | [springme](https://github.com/springme)               | LLNL        |
| William Hobbs      | [wihobbs](https://github.com/wihobbs)                 | LLNL        |

## Maintainers Emeritus

| Maintainer       | GitHub ID                                             | Affiliation |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Dong Ahn         | [dongahn](https://github.com/dongahn)                 | NVIDIA      |
| Don Lipari       | [lipari](https://github.com/lipari)                   | independent |
| Chris Morrone    | [morrone](https://github.com/morrone)                 | LLNL        |
| Stephen Herbein  | [steVwonder](https://github.com/steVwonder)           | NVIDIA      |

Commit message:

chore: add note to MAINTAINERS.md file
Add a simple note to the MAINTAINERS.md file offering
assistance to anyone wishing to update their name.

MAINTAINERS.md, after:

This document contains a list of the Maintainers of this github repository.
For further information on the role of Maintainer and how to contribute
to this project, please refer to [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Current Maintainers

| Maintainer         | GitHub ID                                             | Affiliation |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Al Chu             | [chu11](https://github.com/chu11)                     | LLNL        |
| Chris Dunlap       | [dun](https://github.com/dun)                         | LLNL        |
| Christopher Moussa | [cmoussa1](https://github.com/cmoussa1)               | LLNL        |
| Elsa Gonsiorowski  | [gonsie](https://github.com/gonsie)                   | LLNL        |
| James Corbett      | [jameshcorbett](https://github.com/jameshcorbett)     | LLNL        |
| Jim Garlick        | [garlick](https://github.com/garlick)                 | LLNL        |
| Jae-seung Yeom     | [JaeseungYeom](https://github.com/JaeseungYeom)       | LLNL        |
| Mark Grondona      | [grondo](https://github.com/grondo)                   | LLNL        |
| Daniel Milroy      | [milroy](https://github.com/milroy)                   | LLNL        |
| Tapasya Patki      | [tpatki](https://github.com/tpatki)                   | LLNL        |
| Tom Scogland       | [trws](https://github.com/trws)                       | LLNL        |
| Vanessa Sochat     | [vsoch](https://github.com/vsoch)                     | LLNL        |
| Becky Springmeyer  | [springme](https://github.com/springme)               | LLNL        |
| William Hobbs      | [wihobbs](https://github.com/wihobbs)                 | LLNL        |

_If you'd like to update your name or affiliation across Flux repositories, 
feel free to open an issue or reach out to our [Organization 
Administrators](https://github.com/flux-framework/#organization-administrators)
who are happy to help with this._

## Maintainers Emeritus

| Maintainer       | GitHub ID                                             | Affiliation |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Dong Ahn         | [dongahn](https://github.com/dongahn)                 | NVIDIA      |
| Don Lipari       | [lipari](https://github.com/lipari)                   | independent |
| Chris Morrone    | [morrone](https://github.com/morrone)                 | LLNL        |
| Stephen Herbein  | [steVwonder](https://github.com/steVwonder)           | NVIDIA      |
