README.md, before:

[![ci](https://github.com/flux-framework/flux-core/workflows/ci/badge.svg)](https://github.com/flux-framework/flux-core/actions?query=workflow%3A.github%2Fworkflows%2Fmain.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/flux-framework/flux-core/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/flux-framework/flux-core)

See our [Online Documentation](https://flux-framework.readthedocs.io)!

_NOTE: the github issue tracker is the primary way to communicate
with Flux developers._


### flux-core

flux-core implements the lowest level services and interfaces for the Flux
resource manager framework.  It is intended to be the first building block
used in the construction of a site-composed Flux resource manager.  Other
building blocks are also in development under the
[flux-framework github organization](https://github.com/flux-framework),
including a workload [scheduler](https://github.com/flux-framework/flux-sched).

Framework projects use the C4 development model pioneered in
the ZeroMQ project and forked as
[Flux RFC 1](https://flux-framework.rtfd.io/projects/flux-rfc/en/latest/spec_1.html).
Flux licensing and collaboration plans are described in
[Flux RFC 2](https://flux-framework.rtfd.io/projects/flux-rfc/en/latest/spec_2.html).
Protocols and API's used in Flux will be documented as Flux RFC's.

#### Build Requirements

For convenience, scripts that install flux-core's build dependencies
are available for [redhat](scripts/install-deps-rpm.sh) and
[debian](scripts/install-deps-deb.sh) distros.

##### Building from Source
```
./autogen.sh   # skip if building from a release tarball
./configure
make
make check
```

##### VSCode Dev Containers

If you use VSCode we have a dev container and [instructions](vscode.md).

##### Container Images

Pre-built container images are available for a variety of linux distributions and
amd64/arm64 architectures on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/fluxrm/flux-core).
Tags are of the form `distribution-architecture` for the latest development version,
with `latest` mapping to `bookworm-amd64`. Specific releases are available via
`distribution-v0.XX.Y-architecture`.

#### Starting Flux

A Flux instance is composed of a set of `flux-broker` processes running as
a parallel job and can be started by most launchers that can start MPI jobs.
Doing so for a single user does not require administrator privilege.
To start a Flux instance (size = 8) on the local node for testing, use
flux's built-in test launcher:
```
src/cmd/flux start --test-size=8
```
A shell is spawned in which Flux commands can be executed.  When the shell
exits, Flux exits.

For more information on starting Flux in various environments and using it,
please refer to our [docs](https://flux-framework.readthedocs.io) pages.

#### Release

SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-3.0

LLNL-CODE-764420

Commit message:

README.md: Add tips for `make check`
Problem: `make check` in flux-core takes a very long time to complete
without use of `-j`, but the README doesn't mention or suggest use
of this option.

Add `-jN` to the options of both `make` and `make check` in the
instructions. Also add a tip suggesting the use of `-j` with `make
check` specifically, and add a link to the testsuite README.

README.md, after:

[![ci](https://github.com/flux-framework/flux-core/workflows/ci/badge.svg)](https://github.com/flux-framework/flux-core/actions?query=workflow%3A.github%2Fworkflows%2Fmain.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/flux-framework/flux-core/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/flux-framework/flux-core)

See our [Online Documentation](https://flux-framework.readthedocs.io)!

_NOTE: the github issue tracker is the primary way to communicate
with Flux developers._


### flux-core

flux-core implements the lowest level services and interfaces for the Flux
resource manager framework.  It is intended to be the first building block
used in the construction of a site-composed Flux resource manager.  Other
building blocks are also in development under the
[flux-framework github organization](https://github.com/flux-framework),
including a workload [scheduler](https://github.com/flux-framework/flux-sched).

Framework projects use the C4 development model pioneered in
the ZeroMQ project and forked as
[Flux RFC 1](https://flux-framework.rtfd.io/projects/flux-rfc/en/latest/spec_1.html).
Flux licensing and collaboration plans are described in
[Flux RFC 2](https://flux-framework.rtfd.io/projects/flux-rfc/en/latest/spec_2.html).
Protocols and API's used in Flux will be documented as Flux RFC's.

#### Build Requirements

For convenience, scripts that install flux-core's build dependencies
are available for [redhat](scripts/install-deps-rpm.sh) and
[debian](scripts/install-deps-deb.sh) distros.

##### Building from Source
```
./autogen.sh   # skip if building from a release tarball
./configure
make -jN
make -jN check
```

> [!TIP]
> `make check` runs many tests. Use of `-jN` recommended.
> For more details about the testsuite, see the [README](t/README.md).

##### VSCode Dev Containers

If you use VSCode we have a dev container and [instructions](vscode.md).

##### Container Images

Pre-built container images are available for a variety of linux distributions and
amd64/arm64 architectures on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/fluxrm/flux-core).
Tags are of the form `distribution-architecture` for the latest development version,
with `latest` mapping to `bookworm-amd64`. Specific releases are available via
`distribution-v0.XX.Y-architecture`.

#### Starting Flux

A Flux instance is composed of a set of `flux-broker` processes running as
a parallel job and can be started by most launchers that can start MPI jobs.
Doing so for a single user does not require administrator privilege.
To start a Flux instance (size = 8) on the local node for testing, use
flux's built-in test launcher:
```
src/cmd/flux start --test-size=8
```
A shell is spawned in which Flux commands can be executed.  When the shell
exits, Flux exits.

For more information on starting Flux in various environments and using it,
please refer to our [docs](https://flux-framework.readthedocs.io) pages.

#### Release

SPDX-License-Identifier: LGPL-3.0

LLNL-CODE-764420
