doc/man5/flux-config-kvs.rst, before:

==================
flux-config-kvs(5)
==================


DESCRIPTION
===========

The Flux system instance **kvs** service provides the primary key value
store (i.e. "the KVS") for a large number of Flux services.  For
example, job eventlogs are stored in the KVS.

The ``kvs`` table may contain the following keys:


KEYS
====

checkpoint-period
   (optional) Sets a period of time (in RFC 23 Flux Standard Duration
   format) that the KVS will regularly checkpoint a reference to its
   primary namespace.  The checkpoint is used to protect against data
   loss in the event of a Flux broker crash.

gc-threshold
   (optional) Sets the number of KVS commits (distinct root snapshots)
   after which offline garbage collection is performed by
   :man1:`flux-shutdown`. A value of 100000 may be a good starting
   point. (Default: garbage collection must be manually requested with
   `flux-shutdown --gc`).


EXAMPLE
=======

::

   [kvs]
   checkpoint-period = "30m"
   gc-threshold = 100000

RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_23`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-shutdown`,:man5:`flux-config`

Commit message:

doc: document kvs max ops configs
Problem: The new kvs transaction-max-ops configuration
option is not documented.

Add documentation to flux-config-kvs(5)

doc/man5/flux-config-kvs.rst, after:

==================
flux-config-kvs(5)
==================


DESCRIPTION
===========

The Flux system instance **kvs** service provides the primary key value
store (i.e. "the KVS") for a large number of Flux services.  For
example, job eventlogs are stored in the KVS.

The ``kvs`` table may contain the following keys:


KEYS
====

checkpoint-period
   (optional) Sets a period of time (in RFC 23 Flux Standard Duration
   format) that the KVS will regularly checkpoint a reference to its
   primary namespace.  The checkpoint is used to protect against data
   loss in the event of a Flux broker crash.

gc-threshold
   (optional) Sets the number of KVS commits (distinct root snapshots)
   after which offline garbage collection is performed by
   :man1:`flux-shutdown`. A value of 100000 may be a good starting
   point. (Default: garbage collection must be manually requested with
   `flux-shutdown --gc`).

transaction-max-ops
   (optional) Sets the maximum number of transactions that can be
   performed in a single KVS commit.  This configuration is to prevent
   a single transaction from taking up too much of the KVS's time
   (i.e. to prevent a denial-of-service from a large transaction).  By
   default the maximum is 16384.


EXAMPLE
=======

::

   [kvs]
   checkpoint-period = "30m"
   gc-threshold = 100000

RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_23`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-shutdown`,:man5:`flux-config`
