======================
flux-jobtap-plugins(7)
======================


DESCRIPTION
===========

The *jobtap* interface supports loading of builtin and external
plugins into the job manager broker module. These plugins can be used
to assign job priorities using algorithms other than the default,
assign job dependencies, aid in debugging of the flow of job states,
or generically extend the functionality of the job manager.

Jobtap plugins are defined using the Flux standard plugin format. Therefore
a jobtap plugin should export the single symbol: ``flux_plugin_init()``,
from which calls to ``flux_plugin_add_handler(3)`` should be used to
register functions which will be called for the callback topic strings
described in the :ref:`callback_topics` section below.

Each callback function uses the Flux standard plugin callback form, e.g.::

   int callback (flux_plugin_t *p,
                 const char *topic,
                 flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                 void *arg);

where ``p`` is the handle for the current *jobtap* plugin, ``topic`` is
the *topic string* for the currently invoked callback, ``args`` contains
a set of plugin arguments which may be unpacked with the
``flux_plugin_arg_unpack(3)`` call, and ``arg`` is any opaque argument
passed along when registering the handler.

Multiple plugins may be loaded in the job-manager simultaneously. In this
case, all matching handlers are called in all loaded plugins in the order
in which they were loaded. For more information about loading plugins
see the :man5:`flux-conf-job-manager` or :man1:`flux-jobtap` manpage.

JOBTAP PLUGIN NAMES
===================

Jobtap plugins are loaded into the job-manager and referenced in the
output of ``flux jobtap list`` by file name. If a plugin is loaded by
a fully qualified path, the plugin name is shortened to the basename,
such that all dynamically loaded plugins have names such as
``plugin-name.so``.

Builtin plugins, on the other hand, are named with a leading ``.``,
and are hidden in ``flux jobtap list``, do not match the
:linux:man7:`glob` ``*`` or "all" keyword, etc. (similar to hidden
filesystem files).  To list builtin plugins, use the ``-a, --all``
option to ``flux jobtap list``, and to remove them use the name
explicitly or include the leading ``.`` in any pattern.

A plugin may optionally assign a name with ``flux_plugin_set_name(3)``,
however this name is not displayed in ``flux jobtap list`` or used in
matching. The internal plugin name is only used as part of the service
name generated by ``flux_jobtap_service_register()``, i.e. the service
name will be ``job-manager.<name>.<method>``. If a plugin does not
set a name with ``flux_plugin_set_name(3)``, then the basename of the
plugin file will be used with the trailing ``.so`` removed.

.. _arguments:

JOBTAP PLUGIN ARGUMENTS
=======================

For job-specific callbacks, all job data is passed to the plugin via
the ``flux_plugin_arg_t *args``, and return data is sent back to the
job manager via the same ``args``. Incoming arguments may be unpacked
using ``flux_plugin_arg_unpack(3)``, e.g.::

   rc = flux_plugin_arg_unpack (args, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_IN,
                                "{s{s:o}, s:I}",
                                "jobspec", "resources", &resources,
                                "id", &id);

will unpack the ``resources`` section of jobspec and the jobid into
``resources`` and ``id`` respectively.

The full list of available args includes the following:

========== ==== ==========================================
name       type description
========== ==== ==========================================
jobspec    o    jobspec with environment redacted
R          o    R with scheduling key redacted (RUN state or later)
id         I    jobid
state      i    current job state
prev_state i    previous state (``job.state.*`` callbacks)
userid     i    userid
urgency    i    current urgency
priority   I    current priority
t_submit   f    submit timestamp in floating point seconds
entry      o    posted eventlog entry, including context
end_event  o    copy of event that cause transition to CLEANUP, if available
========== ==== ==========================================

Return arguments can be packed using the ``FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_OUT`` and
optionally ``FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_REPLACE`` flags. For example to return
a priority::

   rc = flux_plugin_arg_pack (args, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_OUT,
                              "{s:I}",
                              "priority", (int64_t) priority);

While a job is pending, *jobtap* plugin callbacks may also add job
annotations by returning a value for the ``annotations`` key::

   flux_plugin_arg_pack (args, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_OUT,
                         "{s:{s:s}}",
                         "annotations", "test", value);

UTILITY FUNCTIONS
=================

Getting the Flux Handle
------------------------

::

  flux_t *flux_jobtap_get_flux (flux_plugin_t *p);

Returns the ``flux_t`` handle for the broker instance. Use for RPCs, logging,
or other Flux APIs. Returns NULL on failure.

The handle is owned by the plugin infrastructure and must not be destroyed.

Example::

  static int callback (flux_plugin_t *p,
                      const char *topic,
                      flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                      void *arg)
  {
      flux_t *h = flux_jobtap_get_flux (p);

      flux_log (h, LOG_INFO, "callback invoked for topic %s", topic);

      return 0;
  }

.. _callback_topics:

JOB CALLBACK TOPICS
===================

The following job callback "topic strings" are currently provided by the
*jobtap* interface:

job.create
  The ``job.create`` topic notifies a jobtap plugin about a newly introduced
  job. This call may be made in three different situations:

    1. on job submission
    2. when the job manager is restarted and has reloaded a job from the KVS
    3. when a new jobtap plugin is loaded

  In case 1 above, the job state will always be ``FLUX_JOB_STATE_NEW``, while
  jobs in cases 2 and 3 can be in any state except ``FLUX_JOB_STATE_INACTIVE``.

  In case 1, the job is not yet validated.  If necessary, ``job.create`` may
  reject the job in the same manner as ``job.validate`` using
  :man3:`flux_jobtap_reject_job` and a negative return code from the callback.

  In cases 2 and 3, fatal errors may be handled by raising a fatal job
  exception, as usual.

  It is safe to post events from a ``job.create`` handler in all cases.

  .. note::
    In case 3 ``job.create`` is called for active jobs in unspecified order.
    If a plugin requires an ordering guarantee, the plugin should call
    ``flux_jobtap_set_load_sort_order(3)`` from the ``flux_plugin_init()``
    callback. This function takes a ``mode`` parameter of either ``state``,
    to sort jobs by state (then jobid), or ``-state`` to sort by reverse
    state (then jobid). For example ::

       flux_jobtap_set_load_sort_order (p, "state");

    will ensure that ``job.create`` and ``job.new`` are called on jobs
    in PRIORITY first, then DEPEND, then SCHED, and so on.

job.destroy
  The ``job.destroy`` topic is called after a job is rejected or becomes
  inactive.

job.validate
  The ``job.validate`` topic allows a plugin to reject a job before
  it is introduced to the job manager. A rejected job will result in
  a job submission error in the submitting client, and any job data in
  the KVS will be purged. No further callbacks except ``job.destroy``
  will be made for rejected jobs. Note: If a job is not rejected, then
  the ``job.new`` callback will be invoked immediately after ``job.validate``.
  This allows limits or other checks to be implemented in the ``job.validate``
  callback, but accounting for those limits should be confined to the
  ``job.new`` callback, since ``job.new`` may also be called during job-manager
  restart or plugin reload.

job.dependency.*
  The ``job.dependency.*`` topic allows a dependency plugin to notify the
  job-manager that it handles a given dependency _scheme_. The job-manager
  will scan the ``attributes.system.dependencies`` array, if provided, and
  issue a ``job.dependency.SCHEME`` callback for each listed dependency.
  If no plugin has registered for ``SCHEME``, then the job is rejected.
  The plugin should then call ``flux_jobtap_dependency_add(3)`` to add
  a new named dependency to the job (if necessary). Jobs with dependencies
  will remain in the ``DEPEND`` state until all dependencies are removed
  with a corresponding call to ``flux_jobtap_dependency_remove(3)``. See
  ``job.state.depend`` below for more information about dependencies.
  If there is an error in the dependency specification, the job may be
  rejected with :man3:`flux_jobtap_reject_job` and a negative return code
  from the callback.

job.new
  The ``job.new`` topic announces a new valid job.  It may be called in the
  same three situations listed for ``job.create``,

job.state.*
  The ``job.state.*`` callbacks are made just after a job state transition.
  The callback is made after the state has been published to the job's
  eventlog, but before any action has been taken on that state (since the
  action could involve immediately transitioning to a new state)

job.event.*
  The ``job.event.*`` callbacks are made only for plugins subscribed to
  a job with ``flux_jobtap_job_subscribe()``. All job events trigger this
  callback for subscribed plugins, including events that do not result in
  state transitions (e.g., ``start`` or non-fatal ``exception``).

  Subscribing to Job Events::

    int flux_jobtap_job_subscribe (flux_plugin_t *p, flux_jobid_t id);
    void flux_jobtap_job_unsubscribe (flux_plugin_t *p, flux_jobid_t id);

  ``flux_jobtap_job_subscribe()`` subscribes the plugin to ``job.event.*``
  callbacks for job ``id``. Returns 0 on success, -1 on failure.

  ``flux_jobtap_job_unsubscribe()`` unsubscribes from job ``id`` events.

  Subscriptions are cleaned up automatically when the job becomes inactive
  or the plugin is unloaded.

job.state.depend
  The callback for ``FLUX_JOB_STATE_DEPEND`` is the final place from which
  a plugin may add dependencies to a job. Dependencies are added via
  the ``flux_jobtap_dependency_add()`` function. This function allows a
  named dependency to be attached to a job. Jobs with dependencies will
  remain in the ``DEPEND`` state until all dependencies are removed with
  a corresponding call the ``flux_jobtap_dependency_remove()``. A dependency
  may only be used once. A second call to ``flux_jobtap_dependency_add()``
  with the same dependency description will return ``EEXIST``, even if
  the dependency was subsequently removed. (This allows idempotent operation
  of plugin-managed dependencies for job-manager or plugin restart).

  .. note::
    See :ref:`event_processing` for important information about when state
    transitions occur synchronously when removing dependencies.

job.state.priority
  The callback for ``FLUX_JOB_STATE_PRIORITY`` is special, in that a plugin
  must return a priority at the end of the callback (if the plugin is
  a priority-managing plugin). If the job priority is not available, the
  plugin should use ``flux_jobtap_priority_unavail()`` to indicate
  that the priority cannot be set. Jobs that do not have a priority due
  to unavailable priority or when no current priority plugin is loaded will
  remain in the PRIORITY state until a priority is assigned. Therefore,
  a plugin should arrange for the priority to be set asynchronously using 
  ``flux_jobtap_reprioritize_job()``. See the :ref:`priority` section
  for more detailed information about plugin management of job priority.

  .. note::
    See :ref:`event_processing` for important information about when the
    ``job.state.sched`` callback is invoked relative to this callback.

job.state.sched
  In the callback for ``FLUX_JOB_STATE_SCHED`` a plugin may set ``R``
  in output args. In this case, if an ``R`` is not already assigned, then
  this will force ``R`` for the current job and bypass the scheduler.

job.priority.get
  The job manager calls the ``job.priority.get`` topic whenever it wants
  to update the job priority of a single job. The plugin should return a
  priority immediately, but if one is not available when a job is in
  the PRIORITY state, the plugin may use ``flux_jobtap_priority_unavail()``
  to indicate the priority is not available. Returning an unavailable
  priority in the SCHED state is an error and it will be logged, but
  otherwise ignored. A call of ``job.priority.get`` can be requested for
  all jobs by calling ``flux_jobtap_reprioritize_all()``. See the
  :ref:`priority` section for more information about plugin management
  of job priority.

job.inactive-add
  The job has transitioned to INACTIVE state and has been added to the
  inactive hash.

job.inactive-remove
  The job has been purged from the inactive hash.

job.update
  The job has been updated with an RFC 21 ``jobspec-update`` event.


CONFIGURATION CALLBACK TOPIC
============================

Jobtap plugins may register a ``conf.update`` callback.  The current/proposed
configuration object is present in the input arguments under the ``conf`` key.
The callback is invoked in the following circumstances:

  - When the plugin is first loaded.  If the callback returns failure,
    the plugin load fails.

  - Each time the configuration changes.  If the callback returns failure,
    ``flux config reload`` fails.

The callback should return 0 on success, and -1 on failure.  On failure,
it may optionally set a human readable error string in the ``errstr`` output
argument.  The ``flux_jobtap_error()`` convenience function may be useful here.

JOB UPDATE CALLBACKS
====================

The job manager allows updates of select job attributes through a
plugin-based scheme. Plugins may register a callback topic matching
``job.update.KEY``, where ``KEY`` is a period-delimited jobspec attribute,
e.g. ``job.update.attributes.system.duration``. The requested updates are
passed as an additional argument to the plugin in the ``updates`` key.

The purpose of ``job.update.*`` callbacks to enable plugins to allow or
deny the update of specific job attributes. Updates are denied by default
unless a callback exists for the updated attribute and the plugin returns 0
from the callback. Plugins deny an attribute update by returning -1 from
the callback, and may optionally set an error message to return to the
user with ``flux_jobtap_error(3)``.

After all updates in a request are allowed by plugins, then the updated
jobspec is passed through the ``job.validate`` plugin stack to ensure the
result is valid. Plugins can note that an update is already validated by
setting a ``validated`` flag in the ``FLUX_PLUGIN_OUT_ARGS``. If all updated
attributes have this flag then this validation step is skipped. This can
be useful to allow an instance owner to update a job attribute beyond limits
for example.

Some updates may benefit from a job feasibility check before the updates
are applied. This prevents a user from inadvertently causing a job that
was feasible at the time of submission to become infeasible through an
update.  Because the update plugin is in the best position to determine
if a feasibility check should be completed for an update, feasibility
checks are only done if a ``feasibility`` flag in ``FLUX_PLUGIN_OUT_ARGS``
is set. If any plugin for a set of updates requires a feasibility check,
then feasibility of the updated jobspec as a whole will be checked. If
the updated job is determined to be infeasible, then the update is aborted
and an error returned to the user.

The update of one attribute may require modification of other attributes.
For example, an update of ``attributes.system.queue`` may require
modification of ``attributes.system.constraints`` to apply the constraints
of the new queue. To support this use case, plugins may additionally push
an ``updates`` object onto ``FLUX_PLUGIN_OUT_ARGS``. This object has the
same form as the ``jobspec-update`` context defined in RFC 21. For example,
if a plugin wishes to update ``attributes.system.foo`` to 1, it can set ::

   {"updates": {"attributes.system.foo": 1}}

in the ``FLUX_PLUGIN_OUT_ARGS`` before returning. Updates are applied by
updating the requested updates, so this method could overwrite other user-
requested updates and caution is advised.

Example: Complete Update Handler
---------------------------------

A plugin that allows updating job duration while enforcing limits::

  #define MAX_DURATION 86400  /* 24 hours */

  static int update_duration_cb (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                 const char *topic,
                                 flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                                 void *arg)
  {
      double duration;

      /* Unpack the requested update value */
      if (flux_plugin_arg_unpack (args,
                                  FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_IN,
                                  "{s:{s:f}}",
                                  "updates",
                                    "attributes.system.duration", &duration) < 0) {
          return flux_jobtap_error (p, args, "failed to unpack duration");
      }

      /* Enforce maximum duration limit */
      if (duration > MAX_DURATION) {
          return flux_jobtap_error (p, args,
                                   "duration %.0f exceeds maximum of %d",
                                   duration, MAX_DURATION);
      }

      /* Enforce minimum duration */
      if (duration < 60.0) {
          return flux_jobtap_error (p, args,
                                   "duration %.0f is below minimum of 60",
                                   duration);
      }

      /* Accept the update - no additional validation needed */
      flux_plugin_arg_pack (args,
                           FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_OUT,
                           "{s:i}",
                           "validated", 1);

      return 0;
  }

  int flux_plugin_init (flux_plugin_t *p)
  {
      return flux_plugin_add_handler (p,
                                      "job.update.attributes.system.duration",
                                      update_duration_cb,
                                      NULL);
  }

This plugin validates duration updates against limits and sets ``validated=1``
to skip additional validation.

UPDATING JOBS PROGRAMMATICALLY
===============================

::

  int flux_jobtap_jobspec_update_pack (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                       const char *fmt,
                                       ...);

  int flux_jobtap_jobspec_update_id_pack (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                          flux_jobid_t id,
                                          const char *fmt,
                                          ...);

``flux_jobtap_jobspec_update_pack()`` updates the jobspec of the current
job (the job for which the callback was invoked). Arguments follow Jansson
pack format with period-delimited keys per RFC 21 jobspec-update format.

Call only from a jobtap callback for the job being updated, not for other
jobs or outside callback context. Returns 0 on success, -1 on failure.

``flux_jobtap_jobspec_update_id_pack()`` updates job ``id`` asynchronously,
outside a callback for the target job. The job must not be the current job
(use ``flux_jobtap_jobspec_update_pack()`` for that). Returns 0 on success,
-1 on failure.

Restrictions:

- Jobs in RUN, CLEANUP, or INACTIVE state cannot be updated
- Jobs with readonly eventlogs cannot be updated
- Updates are subject to ``job.validate`` callbacks
- Use ``job.update.*`` callbacks to allow/deny specific attribute updates

Example updating job duration::

  static int some_callback (flux_plugin_t *p,
                           const char *topic,
                           flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                           void *arg)
  {
      /* Update current job's duration to 1 hour */
      if (flux_jobtap_jobspec_update_pack (p,
                                          "{s:f}",
                                          "attributes.system.duration",
                                          3600.0) < 0)
          return -1;

      return 0;
  }

Example updating another job asynchronously::

  /* Called from timer or other async context */
  static void timer_cb (flux_reactor_t *r,
                       flux_watcher_t *w,
                       int revents,
                       void *arg)
  {
      flux_plugin_t *p = arg;
      flux_jobid_t target_job = get_target_job ();

      /* Update different job's priority attribute */
      flux_jobtap_jobspec_update_id_pack (p,
                                         target_job,
                                         "{s:i}",
                                         "attributes.system.urgency",
                                         16);
  }

PLUGIN CALLBACK TOPICS
======================

plugin.query
  The job manager calls the ``plugin.query`` callback topic to give a plugin
  the opportunity to provide extra data in response to a ``jobtap-query``
  request (as used by the ``flux jobtap query PLUGIN`` command). This can be
  used by a plugin to export internal plugin state for inspection by an admin
  or user by placing the data in the output arguments of the callback, e.g.::

    flux_plugin_arg_pack (p, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_OUT,
                          "{s:O}"
                          "data", internal_data);

.. _event_processing:

EVENT PROCESSING MODEL
======================

Understanding when events are processed synchronously versus asynchronously
is important for plugin developers, especially when posting events that
affect other jobs or when multiple state transitions may occur in response
to a single action.

Event Queue Mechanism
---------------------

The job manager maintains a per-job event queue to ensure events are
processed in order and to prevent problematic recursive callback invocations.
When a plugin posts an event (e.g., via ``flux_jobtap_dependency_remove()``,
``flux_jobtap_event_post_pack()``, or by returning values like ``priority``
in callback output arguments), the event is added to the target job's queue.

The queue processing behavior depends on whether the target job is currently
executing a callback:

**Target job is idle** (not processing any event):
  The event is processed immediately and synchronously before the posting
  function returns. This can trigger a cascade of state transitions and
  additional callbacks, all within the same call stack.

**Target job is busy** (currently in a callback):
  The event is queued and will be processed after the current callback
  completes, but still before control returns to the original caller.
  This prevents recursive callbacks that could see inconsistent job state.

Synchronous State Transition Chains
------------------------------------

Jobtap operations can trigger chains of synchronous state transitions.

**Example 1: Dependency Removal**

When a plugin removes the last dependency from a job::

  flux_jobtap_dependency_remove (p, target_jobid, "my-dependency");
  // When this returns, target job may have reached SCHED state

**If the target job is not currently in a callback**, the following occurs
synchronously before the function returns:

1. A ``dependency-remove`` event is posted and processed immediately
2. The job transitions from ``DEPEND`` to ``PRIORITY`` state
3. All plugins' ``job.state.priority`` callbacks are invoked
4. If a plugin returns a valid priority (or uses default priority):

   a. A ``priority`` event is posted (queued due to recursion prevention)
   b. After the ``job.state.priority`` callback returns, the queued
      ``priority`` event is processed
   c. The job transitions from ``PRIORITY`` to ``SCHED`` state
   d. All plugins' ``job.state.sched`` callbacks are invoked
   e. The job is enqueued with the scheduler

5. Only then does ``flux_jobtap_dependency_remove()`` return

**If the target job is currently in a callback**, the event is queued,
the function returns immediately, and state transitions occur after the
target job's callback completes.

**Example 2: Priority Assignment**

When a plugin returns a priority in its ``job.state.priority`` callback::

  int priority_cb (flux_plugin_t *p,
                   const char *topic,
                   flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                   void *arg)
  {
      // Calculate priority
      int64_t priority = calculate_priority (args);

      flux_plugin_arg_pack (args, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_OUT,
                           "{s:I}",
                           "priority", priority);
      return 0;
      // When this returns, job.state.sched may have been called
  }

When priority is available immediately:

1. The plugin returns with a priority in output args
2. A ``priority`` event is posted (queued to prevent recursion)
3. After all ``job.state.priority`` callbacks complete, the queued event
   is processed
4. The job transitions from ``PRIORITY`` to ``SCHED`` state
5. All plugins' ``job.state.sched`` callbacks are invoked
6. Control returns through the callback stack

Recursion Prevention
--------------------

The event queue prevents infinite recursion in two scenarios:

**Events posted to the current job**:
  If a callback posts an event to the job for which it was invoked, that
  event is queued and processed after the callback returns, not recursively
  during the callback. This ensures the job state remains stable during
  callback execution.

**Cascading events during event processing**:
  When processing an event triggers additional events (like priority
  assignment triggering a state transition), these events are queued and
  processed in order before returning to the original caller, but without
  deep recursion.

This design ensures:

- Job state remains consistent during each callback invocation
- Callbacks see a stable, well-defined view of the job
- Events are always processed in strict FIFO order
- Stack depth remains bounded regardless of event chains
- Jobs cannot change state "underneath" a running callback

Job Hold Mechanism
------------------

The job manager may temporarily "hold" events for a job using the
``job->hold_events`` flag. While this flag is set, all events for that
job are queued and not processed immediately. This occurs during:

- Batch KVS commit operations
- Certain bulk job operations

When the hold is released, all queued events are processed synchronously
in order before control returns. This is transparent to plugins but explains
why multiple state transitions may occur atomically.

Implications for Plugin Authors
--------------------------------

**Synchronous cascades**:
  Callbacks on other jobs or later states may execute before posting
  functions return. Do not assume operations occur after event posting—the
  event and its callbacks complete within the posting function.

**State consistency**:
  Job state remains constant during callback execution. A job in
  ``job.state.priority`` remains in PRIORITY state until the callback
  returns, even if the callback posts events.

**Dependency removal timing**:
  If the target job is not in a callback:

  - ``job.state.priority`` callback executes before
    ``flux_jobtap_dependency_remove()`` returns
  - If priority is available, ``job.state.sched`` also executes before return
  - If priority is unavailable, target job remains in PRIORITY state

  If the target job is in a callback, the dependency removal is queued and
  ``flux_jobtap_dependency_remove()`` returns immediately.

**Priority assignment timing**:
  When returning a priority in ``job.state.priority``:

  - ``job.state.sched`` callback executes before the callback returns
  - All plugins' ``job.state.sched`` callbacks execute synchronously
  - The job may be enqueued with the scheduler before callback returns

**Asynchronous operations**:
  For asynchronous work (I/O, RPCs, timers):

  - For priority: Use ``flux_jobtap_priority_unavail()``, then call
    ``flux_jobtap_reprioritize_job()`` when ready
  - For dependencies: Add in ``job.state.depend``, remove when condition met
  - Do not attempt to defer event processing—use the provided mechanisms

**Querying job state**:
  Querying a job after posting an event returns the state after all
  synchronous transitions complete::

    flux_jobtap_dependency_remove (p, other_id, "my-dependency");

    // Query the job - it may now be in SCHED state
    flux_plugin_arg_t *job_info = flux_jobtap_job_lookup (p, other_id);
    int state;
    flux_plugin_arg_unpack (job_info, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_IN,
                           "{s:i}", "state", &state);
    // state may be FLUX_JOB_STATE_SCHED, not DEPEND or PRIORITY

**Callback ordering**:
  Events are processed in order per job. Across jobs, processing order
  depends on the order events were posted.

Example: Dependency Chain
--------------------------

Consider a plugin managing a chain of dependent jobs. When the first job
completes, it should release the second job::

  int finish_cb (flux_plugin_t *p,
                 const char *topic,
                 flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                 void *arg)
  {
      flux_jobid_t completed_id, dependent_id;

      flux_plugin_arg_unpack (args, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_IN,
                             "{s:I}", "id", &completed_id);

      dependent_id = get_dependent_job (completed_id);
      if (dependent_id != FLUX_JOBID_ANY) {
          // If dependent_id is idle: DEPEND -> PRIORITY -> SCHED synchronously
          // If dependent_id is busy: queued for later processing
          flux_jobtap_dependency_remove (p, dependent_id, "predecessor");
      }
      return 0;
  }

When the target job is idle, synchronous processing releases dependent jobs
immediately, minimizing startup latency.

.. _job_auxiliary_data:

JOB AUXILIARY DATA
==================

Plugins can attach arbitrary data to jobs. This data persists across callbacks
and state transitions, enabling stateful plugin operation.

API Functions
-------------

::

  int flux_jobtap_job_aux_set (flux_plugin_t *p,
                               flux_jobid_t id,
                               const char *name,
                               void *val,
                               flux_free_f free_fn);

  void *flux_jobtap_job_aux_get (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                 flux_jobid_t id,
                                 const char *name);

  int flux_jobtap_job_aux_delete_value (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                        flux_jobid_t id,
                                        void *val);

``flux_jobtap_job_aux_set()`` attaches data ``val`` with key ``name`` to
job ``id``. If ``free_fn`` is non-NULL, it destroys ``val`` when the job
is destroyed or the plugin unloads. Returns 0 on success, -1 on failure.

``flux_jobtap_job_aux_get()`` retrieves data for key ``name`` from job
``id``. Returns the data pointer, or NULL if not found.

``flux_jobtap_job_aux_delete_value()`` removes aux data by value from job
``id``. Use when the key name is unknown but the value pointer is available.
Returns 0 on success, -1 on failure.

The ``id`` parameter accepts ``FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB`` to operate on the
current callback's job.

Lifecycle
---------

Auxiliary data is cleaned up automatically when:

- The job transitions to INACTIVE state
- The plugin is unloaded
- The data is explicitly deleted

Data persists across all state transitions before INACTIVE.

Isolation
---------

Each plugin's auxiliary data is isolated from other plugins. Two plugins
can use the same key without conflict.

Example
-------

Track the number of times a job has been through PRIORITY state::

  struct priority_count {
      int count;
  };

  static int priority_cb (flux_plugin_t *p,
                         const char *topic,
                         flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                         void *arg)
  {
      struct priority_count *pc;

      pc = flux_jobtap_job_aux_get (p, FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB, "pricount");
      if (!pc) {
          pc = calloc (1, sizeof (*pc));
          if (flux_jobtap_job_aux_set (p,
                                       FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB,
                                       "pricount",
                                       pc,
                                       free) < 0) {
              free (pc);
              return -1;
          }
      }
      pc->count++;

      flux_log (flux_jobtap_get_flux (p),
               LOG_INFO,
               "job priority calculated %d times",
               pc->count);

      return 0;
  }

.. _raising_exceptions:

RAISING EXCEPTIONS
==================

Plugins can raise job exceptions to signal errors or anomalous conditions.
Exceptions are recorded in the job eventlog and can terminate the job.

API Function
------------

::

  int flux_jobtap_raise_exception (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                   flux_jobid_t id,
                                   const char *type,
                                   int severity,
                                   const char *fmt,
                                   ...);

Raises an exception on job ``id`` with the specified ``type``, ``severity``,
and formatted message. The ``id`` parameter accepts ``FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB``.
Returns 0 on success, -1 on failure.

Severity Levels
---------------

**severity = 0** (fatal):
  Terminates the job immediately. Job transitions to CLEANUP state and
  will not run. Use for unrecoverable errors.

**severity = 1-6** (non-fatal):
  Logs the exception but allows the job to continue. Use for warning
  conditions that should be recorded but do not prevent execution.

**severity = 7** (debug):
  Debug-level exception, not shown to users by default.

Severity levels correspond to syslog levels, with 0 most severe (LOG_EMERG)
and 7 least severe (LOG_DEBUG).

Exception Types
---------------

The ``type`` parameter identifies the exception category. Common types:

- ``"dependency"`` - dependency-related errors
- ``"alloc"`` - resource allocation failures
- ``"timeout"`` - job timeout
- ``"cancel"`` - job cancellation
- ``"exec"`` - execution system errors

The type is recorded in the exception event for monitoring tools.

When to Use
-----------

Use ``flux_jobtap_raise_exception()`` instead of returning -1 when:

- The error should be visible in job eventlogs
- A detailed error message is needed
- The error should terminate the job (severity 0)
- The job should continue but the condition logged (severity 1-6)

Return -1 for plugin-internal errors that should not generate user-visible
exceptions.

Example
-------

Raise a fatal exception if a job violates policy::

  static int validate_cb (flux_plugin_t *p,
                         const char *topic,
                         flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                         void *arg)
  {
      int nnodes;

      if (flux_plugin_arg_unpack (args,
                                  FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_IN,
                                  "{s:{s:{s:i}}}",
                                  "jobspec",
                                    "resources",
                                      "nnodes", &nnodes) < 0)
          return -1;

      if (nnodes > 1024) {
          flux_jobtap_raise_exception (p,
                                       FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB,
                                       "policy",
                                       0,
                                       "requested %d nodes exceeds limit of 1024",
                                       nnodes);
          return -1;
      }

      return 0;
  }

Raise a non-fatal warning::

  static int alloc_cb (flux_plugin_t *p,
                      const char *topic,
                      flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                      void *arg)
  {
      /* Warn if job has been waiting more than 1 hour */
      double t_submit, now = flux_reactor_now (flux_get_reactor (
                                                flux_jobtap_get_flux (p)));

      flux_plugin_arg_unpack (args, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_IN,
                             "{s:f}", "t_submit", &t_submit);

      if (now - t_submit > 3600.0) {
          flux_jobtap_raise_exception (p,
                                       FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB,
                                       "long-wait",
                                       4,
                                       "job waited %.0f seconds for allocation",
                                       now - t_submit);
      }

      return 0;
  }

.. _querying_job_state:

QUERYING JOB STATE
==================

Getting Job Information
-----------------------

::

  flux_plugin_arg_t *flux_jobtap_job_lookup (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                             flux_jobid_t id);

Returns job information for job ``id`` as a ``flux_plugin_arg_t`` containing
the same fields as callback input args (see :ref:`arguments`). Returns NULL
on failure.

Call ``flux_plugin_arg_destroy()`` on the returned object.

Getting Job Result
------------------

::

  int flux_jobtap_get_job_result (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                  flux_jobid_t id,
                                  flux_job_result_t *resultp);

Gets the result of job ``id`` and stores it in ``*resultp``. Valid only for
jobs in CLEANUP or INACTIVE state. Returns 0 on success, -1 on failure.

Result values:

``FLUX_JOB_RESULT_COMPLETED``
  Job completed successfully (exit code 0)

``FLUX_JOB_RESULT_FAILED``
  Job failed (non-zero exit code)

``FLUX_JOB_RESULT_CANCELED``
  Job canceled by exception type "cancel"

``FLUX_JOB_RESULT_TIMEOUT``
  Job canceled by exception type "timeout"

Use in ``job.state.cleanup`` or ``job.state.inactive`` callbacks to
determine why a job ended.

Checking Posted Events
-----------------------

::

  int flux_jobtap_job_event_posted (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                    flux_jobid_t id,
                                    const char *name);

Returns 1 if event ``name`` was posted to job ``id``, 0 if not, -1 on
failure. Use for idempotent operations and checking job history.

Setting Job Flags
-----------------

::

  int flux_jobtap_job_set_flag (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                flux_jobid_t id,
                                const char *flag);

Sets a flag on job ``id``. The ``id`` parameter accepts
``FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB``. Returns 0 on success, -1 on failure.

Supported flags:

``waitable``
  Makes the job waitable via ``flux_job_wait()``. By default, only jobs
  submitted with ``FLUX_JOB_WAITABLE`` are waitable. This allows plugins
  to make jobs waitable after submission.

Posts a ``set-flags`` event to the job eventlog.

Example
-------

Query job information from another context::

  flux_plugin_arg_t *args = flux_jobtap_job_lookup (p, other_jobid);
  if (args) {
      int state;
      flux_jobid_t id;

      flux_plugin_arg_unpack (args, FLUX_PLUGIN_ARG_IN,
                             "{s:I s:i}",
                             "id", &id,
                             "state", &state);

      flux_log (flux_jobtap_get_flux (p),
               LOG_DEBUG,
               "job %s is in state %d",
               idf58 (id),
               state);

      flux_plugin_arg_destroy (args);
  }

Get job result in cleanup::

  static int cleanup_cb (flux_plugin_t *p,
                        const char *topic,
                        flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
                        void *arg)
  {
      flux_job_result_t result;

      if (flux_jobtap_get_job_result (p,
                                      FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB,
                                      &result) == 0) {
          switch (result) {
              case FLUX_JOB_RESULT_COMPLETED:
                  /* Job succeeded */
                  break;
              case FLUX_JOB_RESULT_FAILED:
                  /* Job failed */
                  break;
              case FLUX_JOB_RESULT_CANCELED:
                  /* Job was canceled */
                  break;
              case FLUX_JOB_RESULT_TIMEOUT:
                  /* Job timed out */
                  break;
          }
      }

      return 0;
  }

Check if dependency event was posted::

  if (flux_jobtap_job_event_posted (p, id, "dependency-add")) {
      /* Dependency was already added, skip */
      return 0;
  }

.. _priority:

PRIORITY
========

Custom assignment of job priority values is one of the core
features supported by the jobtap plugin interface. A builtin
``.priority-default`` plugin is always loaded in the job-manager to
ensure that jobs move past the PRIORITY state when no other priority
plugin is loaded. The default plugin simply assigns the priority to
the same value as the current job urgency.

When loading a new jobtap plugin that assigns priority, it is important
to be cognizant of the fact that the ``.priority-default`` plugin may
still be loaded. This will result in the ``priority`` set in the return
arguments to always be initialized to the job urgency. However, since
plugin ``job.state.priority`` and ``job.priority.get`` callbacks are
run in order, any subsequently loaded plugin that assigns a priority
will overwrite the returned default ``priority`` and thus the last
loaded priority plugin will be active.

To ensure the default priority is always overridden priority plugins
should therefore make sure to always set a priority, or use
``flux_jobtap_priority_unavail()`` if the priority is not available,
in any callback in which a priority is expected to be returned, i.e.
``job.state.priority`` and ``job.priority.get``.

To fully ensure priority plugins do not conflict, the builtin priority
plugin may explicitly be removed with

::

    flux jobtap remove .priority-default

or via configuration (See :man5:`flux-conf-job-manager`)

::

   [job-manager]
   plugins = [
     { remove = ".priority-default",
       load = "complex-priority.so"
     },
   ]


.. _perilogs:

PROLOG AND EPILOG ACTIONS
=========================

Plugins that need to perform asynchronous tasks for jobs after an ``alloc``
event but before the job is running, or after a ``finish`` event but before
resources are freed to the scheduler can make use of job manager prolog or
epilog actions.

Prolog and epilog actions are delineated by the following functions:

::

   int flux_jobtap_prolog_start (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                 const char *description);

   int flux_jobtap_prolog_finish (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                  flux_jobid_t id,
                                  const char *description,
                                  int status);

   int flux_jobtap_epilog_start (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                 const char *description);

   int flux_jobtap_epilog_finish (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                  flux_jobid_t id,
                                  const char *description,
                                  int status);

To initiate a prolog action, a plugin should call the function
``flux_jobtap_prolog_start()``. This will block the job from starting
even after resources have been assigned until a corresponding call to
``flux_jobtap_prolog_finish()`` has been called. While the status of the
prolog action is passed to ``flux_jobtap_prolog_finish()`` so it can be
captured in the eventlog, the action itself is responsible for raising
a job exception or taking other action on failure. That is, a non-zero
prolog finish status does not cause any automated behavior on the part of
the job manager. Similarly, the prolog ``description`` is used for
informational purposes only, so that multiple actions in an eventlog
may be differentiated.

Similarly, an epilog action is initiated with ``flux_jobtap_epilog_start()``,
and prevents resources from being released to the scheduler until a
corresponding call to ``flux_jobtap_epilog_finish()``. The same caveats
described for prolog actions regarding description and completion status
of epilog actions apply.

The ``flux_jobtap_prolog_start()`` function may be initiated anytime
before the ``start`` request is made to the execution system, though most
often from the ``job.state.run`` or ``job.event.alloc`` callbacks,
since this is the point at which a job has been allocated resources.
(Note: plugins will only receive the ``job.event.*`` callbacks for
jobs to which they have subscribed with a call to
``flux_jobtap_job_subscribe()``). A prolog action cannot be started
after a job enters the CLEANUP state.

The ``flux_jobtap_epilog_start()`` function may only be called after a
job is in the CLEANUP state, but before the ``free`` request has been
sent to the scheduler, for example from the ``job.state.cleanup``
or ``job.event.finish`` callbacks.

If ``flux_jobtap_prolog_start()``, ``flux_jobtap_prolog_finish()``,
``flux_jobtap_epilog_start()`` or ``flux_jobtap_epilog_finish()`` are
called for a job in an invalid state, these function will return -1 with
``errno`` set to ``EINVAL``.

Multiple prolog or epilog actions can be active at the same time.

CALLING OTHER PLUGINS
=====================

Plugins may invoke custom callbacks in other plugins using
``flux_jobtap_call()``. Note that topic strings starting with ``job.``
are reserved for use by the job-manager and will cause this function
to fail immediately with ``errno`` set to ``EINVAL``::

 int flux_jobtap_call (flux_plugin_t *p,
                       flux_jobid_t id,
                       const char *topic,
                       flux_plugin_arg_t *args)


Much of the jobtap API assumes a current job, so a job ``id`` argument
is required. Note, that ``args`` is passed unmodified when invoking
callbacks for ``topic``, so expected data listed in :ref:`arguments` for
job ``id`` may not be present in newly created ``args`` unless manually
added by the caller. However, when invoked from another jobtap callback,
the existing ``args`` object along with ``FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB`` may be
used in ``flux_jobtap_call()``, in which case ``args`` will still contain
the expected job arguments.  For example, the following will call all
plugins registered for the topic ``custom.topic`` when the ``callback``
is called ::

 int callback (flux_plugin_t *p,
               const char *topic,
               flux_plugin_arg_t *args,
               void *arg)
 {
      return flux_jobtap_call (p,
                               FLUX_JOBTAP_CURRENT_JOB,
                               "custom.topic",
                               args);
 }

REGISTERING SERVICES
====================

::

  int flux_jobtap_service_register (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                    const char *method,
                                    flux_msg_handler_f cb,
                                    void *arg);

  int flux_jobtap_service_register_ex (flux_plugin_t *p,
                                       const char *method,
                                       uint32_t rolemask,
                                       flux_msg_handler_f cb,
                                       void *arg);

Registers a service endpoint invoked via Flux RPC. The service name is
``job-manager.<plugin-name>.<method>``, where ``<plugin-name>`` is the
plugin's internal name (see JOBTAP PLUGIN NAMES section).

``flux_jobtap_service_register()`` registers a service accessible to all
users.

``flux_jobtap_service_register_ex()`` restricts access to users matching
``rolemask``. Use ``FLUX_ROLE_OWNER`` for instance owner, ``FLUX_ROLE_USER``
for any user.

Both return 0 on success, -1 on failure.

The callback receives RPC requests and responds using ``flux_respond()`` or
``flux_respond_error()``.

Example::

  static void query_cb (flux_t *h,
                       flux_msg_handler_t *mh,
                       const flux_msg_t *msg,
                       void *arg)
  {
      struct plugin_data *data = arg;

      /* Return plugin state */
      if (flux_respond_pack (h, msg,
                            "{s:i}",
                            "count", data->count) < 0)
          flux_log_error (h, "query response failed");
  }

  int flux_plugin_init (flux_plugin_t *p)
  {
      struct plugin_data *data = calloc (1, sizeof (*data));

      /* Register job-manager.myplugin.query service */
      if (flux_jobtap_service_register (p, "query", query_cb, data) < 0)
          return -1;

      return 0;
  }

Users can then query via::

  $ flux exec -r 0 flux python
  >>> import flux
  >>> h = flux.Flux()
  >>> h.rpc("job-manager.myplugin.query").get()

RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-jobtap`, :man5:`flux-conf-job-manager`

