doc/man1/common/job-shell-options.rst, before:

.. Once we advance to sphinx 5.3+, :option: will x-ref with arguments
.. e.g. :option:`cpu-affinity=OFF`.  For now, leave options off to get x-ref.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Description

   * - :option:`cpu-affinity`
     - Set task affinity to cores (:option:`off|per-task|map:LIST|on`)

   * - :option:`gpu-affinity`
     - Set task affinity to GPUs (:option:`off|per-task|map:LIST|on`)

   * - :option:`verbose`
     - Increase shell log verbosity (1 or 2).

   * - :option:`nosetpgrp`
     - Don't run each task in its own process group.

   * - :option:`pmi`
     - Set PMI service(s) for launched programs (:option:`off|simple|LIST`)

   * - :option:`stage-in`
     - Copy files previously mapped with :man1:`flux-archive` to
       :envvar:`FLUX_JOB_TMPDIR`.

   * - :option:`pty.interactive`
     - Enable a pty on rank 0 for :program:`flux job attach`.

   * - :option:`exit-timeout`
     - Start fatal job exception timer after first task exits
       (:option:`none|FSD`)

   * - :option:`exit-on-error`
     - Raise a fatal job exception immediately if first task exits with
       nonzero exit code.

   * - :option:`hwloc.xmlfile`
     - Write hwloc XML gathered by job to a file and set ``HWLOC_XMLFILE``.
       Note that this option will also unset ``HWLOC_COMPONENTS`` if set, since
       presence of this environment variable may cause hwloc to ignore
       ``HWLOC_XMLFILE``.

   * - :option:`output.limit`
     - Set KVS output limit to SIZE bytes, where SIZE may be a floating point
       value including optional SI units: k, K, M, G. This value is ignored
       if output is directed to a file with :option:`--output`.

   * - :option:`output.mode`
     - Set the open mode for output files to either "truncate" or "append".
       The default is "truncate".

Commit message:

doc: document `hwloc.restrict` job shell option
Problem: The `hwloc.restrict` job shell option is not documented.

Document it in flux-shell(1) and the submission cli manpages.

doc/man1/common/job-shell-options.rst, after:

.. Once we advance to sphinx 5.3+, :option: will x-ref with arguments
.. e.g. :option:`cpu-affinity=OFF`.  For now, leave options off to get x-ref.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Name
     - Description

   * - :option:`cpu-affinity`
     - Set task affinity to cores (:option:`off|per-task|map:LIST|on`)

   * - :option:`gpu-affinity`
     - Set task affinity to GPUs (:option:`off|per-task|map:LIST|on`)

   * - :option:`verbose`
     - Increase shell log verbosity (1 or 2).

   * - :option:`nosetpgrp`
     - Don't run each task in its own process group.

   * - :option:`pmi`
     - Set PMI service(s) for launched programs (:option:`off|simple|LIST`)

   * - :option:`stage-in`
     - Copy files previously mapped with :man1:`flux-archive` to
       :envvar:`FLUX_JOB_TMPDIR`.

   * - :option:`pty.interactive`
     - Enable a pty on rank 0 for :program:`flux job attach`.

   * - :option:`exit-timeout`
     - Start fatal job exception timer after first task exits
       (:option:`none|FSD`)

   * - :option:`exit-on-error`
     - Raise a fatal job exception immediately if first task exits with
       nonzero exit code.

   * - :option:`hwloc.xmlfile`
     - Write hwloc XML gathered by job to a file and set ``HWLOC_XMLFILE``.
       Note that this option will also unset ``HWLOC_COMPONENTS`` if set, since
       presence of this environment variable may cause hwloc to ignore
       ``HWLOC_XMLFILE``.

   * - :option:`hwloc.restrict`
     - With :option:`hwloc.xmlfile`, restrict the exported topology XML to only
       those resources assigned to the current job. By default, the XML is
       not restricted.

   * - :option:`output.limit`
     - Set KVS output limit to SIZE bytes, where SIZE may be a floating point
       value including optional SI units: k, K, M, G. This value is ignored
       if output is directed to a file with :option:`--output`.

   * - :option:`output.mode`
     - Set the open mode for output files to either "truncate" or "append".
       The default is "truncate".
