doc/python/basics.rst, before:

Flux Python Basics
==================


Importing the ``flux`` Python package
-------------------------------------

.. note:: The ``flux`` package which is used to interact with Flux *cannot* be
   installed into a virtual environment with pip or conda.

Flux's Python bindings are available with any installation of Flux.
When running in a Flux instance, Flux will export the
`PYTHONPATH <https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONPATH>`_
environment variable so that Python processes can import the flux package
by the usual import mechanism (``import flux``).

If you want to import the package from outside of a Flux instance,
running ``/path/to/flux env | grep PYTHONPATH`` in your shell will show you
what PYTHONPATH would be set to if you were running in a Flux instance
built/installed at ``/path/to/flux``.

Note however that if you import the ``flux`` package from outside a Flux
instance, you will need to specify a Flux instance to communicate with,
or most of the package's operations will fail.


The Flux class
--------------

Almost all of the functionality of the ``flux`` package revolves around
``flux.Flux`` objects, often called "Flux handles", which represent a
connection to a Flux instance.
It is possible to simultaneously have multiple connections open
to the same Flux instance, or to multiple
Flux instances.

.. note:: Flux handles are not thread-safe and should
	not be shared between threads.

In addition to the methods defined on ``flux.Flux`` objects, the ``flux``
package also provides a number of functions which accept
``flux.Flux`` objects as arguments, such as the functions described
:ref:`here <python_job_submission>`.

.. autoclass:: flux.core.handle.Flux
	:members:


The Flux reactor
----------------
Content coming soon.

Commit message:

doc: update Python pip usage in Python docs
Problem: The landing page for the Flux Python documentation notes
that pip can't be used to install the Python bindings, but this is
no longer true.

Update the note at the top to say there's a `flux-python` pip package
available.

doc/python/basics.rst, after:

Flux Python Basics
==================


Importing the ``flux`` Python package
-------------------------------------

.. note:: The ``flux`` package may now be installed via pip using the
   ``flux-python`` package.

Flux's Python bindings are available with any installation of Flux.
When running in a Flux instance, Flux will export the
`PYTHONPATH <https://docs.python.org/3/using/cmdline.html#envvar-PYTHONPATH>`_
environment variable so that Python processes can import the flux package
by the usual import mechanism (``import flux``).

If you want to import the package from outside of a Flux instance,
running ``/path/to/flux env | grep PYTHONPATH`` in your shell will show you
what PYTHONPATH would be set to if you were running in a Flux instance
built/installed at ``/path/to/flux``.

Note however that if you import the ``flux`` package from outside a Flux
instance, you will need to specify a Flux instance to communicate with,
or most of the package's operations will fail.


The Flux class
--------------

Almost all of the functionality of the ``flux`` package revolves around
``flux.Flux`` objects, often called "Flux handles", which represent a
connection to a Flux instance.
It is possible to simultaneously have multiple connections open
to the same Flux instance, or to multiple
Flux instances.

.. note:: Flux handles are not thread-safe and should
	not be shared between threads.

In addition to the methods defined on ``flux.Flux`` objects, the ``flux``
package also provides a number of functions which accept
``flux.Flux`` objects as arguments, such as the functions described
:ref:`here <python_job_submission>`.

.. autoclass:: flux.core.handle.Flux
	:members:


The Flux reactor
----------------
Content coming soon.
