doc/guide/debug.rst, before:

.. _debug:

###############
Debugging Notes
###############

***********************
source tree executables
***********************

`libtool <https://www.gnu.org/software/libtool/manual/libtool.html>`_ is
in use, so :option:`libtool e` trickery is needed to launch a tool against
an actual compiled executable.  Command front ends further complicate this.

.. note::
  :option:`libtool e` is shorthand for :option:`libtool --mode=execute`.

Example: run a built-in sub-command under GDB

.. code-block::

  $ libtool e gdb --ex run --args src/cmd/flux version

Example: run an external sub-command under GDB

.. code-block::

  $ src/cmd/flux /usr/bin/libtool e gdb --ex run --args src/cmd/flux-keygen

Example: run the broker under GDB

.. code-block::

  $ src/cmd/flux start --wrap=libtool,e,gdb,--ex,run

Example: run the broker under valgrind

.. code-block::

  $ src/cmd/flux start --wrap=libtool,e,valgrind

***************
message tracing
***************

Example: trace messages sent/received by a command

.. code-block::

  $ FLUX_HANDLE_TRACE=t flux kvs get foo

Example: trace messages sent/received by two broker modules

.. code-block::

  $ flux module trace --full content kvs

Example: trace messages sent/received by this broker on the overlay network

.. code-block::

  $ flux overlay trace --full

***********
CI failures
***********

Failures that occur only in a github CI workflow can be directly examined
with `tmate access <https://mxschmitt.github.io/action-tmate/>`_.

Example: temporarily patch a failing macos workflow:

.. code-block::

   diff --git a/.github/workflows/main.yml b/.github/workflows/main.yml
   index c65ea7f08..fba80d919 100644
   --- a/.github/workflows/main.yml
   +++ b/.github/workflows/main.yml
   @@ -130,6 +130,9 @@ jobs:
          run: make check -j4 TESTS=
        - name: check what works so far
          run: scripts/check-macos.sh
   +    - name: tmate
   +      if: failure()
   +      uses: mxschmitt/action-tmate@v3


Push that temporary change to a personal fork, then find the ssh address by
examining the action output.

Commit message:

doc: update tmate documentation
Problem: The tmate action in flux-core can now be triggered by
re-running jobs with the debug flag set, but documentation doesn't
mention this.

Update the docs to describe how to enable the tmate action. Keep the
diff that shows how the tmate action can be temporarily added to a
workflow for potential use in other framework projects.

doc/guide/debug.rst, after:

.. _debug:

###############
Debugging Notes
###############

***********************
source tree executables
***********************

`libtool <https://www.gnu.org/software/libtool/manual/libtool.html>`_ is
in use, so :option:`libtool e` trickery is needed to launch a tool against
an actual compiled executable.  Command front ends further complicate this.

.. note::
  :option:`libtool e` is shorthand for :option:`libtool --mode=execute`.

Example: run a built-in sub-command under GDB

.. code-block::

  $ libtool e gdb --ex run --args src/cmd/flux version

Example: run an external sub-command under GDB

.. code-block::

  $ src/cmd/flux /usr/bin/libtool e gdb --ex run --args src/cmd/flux-keygen

Example: run the broker under GDB

.. code-block::

  $ src/cmd/flux start --wrap=libtool,e,gdb,--ex,run

Example: run the broker under valgrind

.. code-block::

  $ src/cmd/flux start --wrap=libtool,e,valgrind

***************
message tracing
***************

Example: trace messages sent/received by a command

.. code-block::

  $ FLUX_HANDLE_TRACE=t flux kvs get foo

Example: trace messages sent/received by two broker modules

.. code-block::

  $ flux module trace --full content kvs

Example: trace messages sent/received by this broker on the overlay network

.. code-block::

  $ flux overlay trace --full

***********
CI failures
***********

Failures that occur only in a github CI workflow can be directly examined
with `tmate access <https://mxschmitt.github.io/action-tmate/>`_.

In flux-core, the tmate action can be enabled by restarting the workflow
and selecting the "Enable debug logging" checkbox.

For other framework projects, the tmate action can be temporarily patched
into the workflows config as in the diff below for the macos workflow:

.. code-block::

   diff --git a/.github/workflows/main.yml b/.github/workflows/main.yml
   index c65ea7f08..fba80d919 100644
   --- a/.github/workflows/main.yml
   +++ b/.github/workflows/main.yml
   @@ -130,6 +130,9 @@ jobs:
          run: make check -j4 TESTS=
        - name: check what works so far
          run: scripts/check-macos.sh
   +    - name: tmate
   +      if: failure()
   +      uses: mxschmitt/action-tmate@v3


Push that temporary change to a personal fork, then find the ssh address by
examining the action output.
