doc/man1/flux-kvs.adoc, before:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-KVS(1)
===========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-kvs - Flux key-value store utility


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *kvs* 'COMMAND' ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
The Flux key-value store (KVS) is a simple, distributed data storage
service used a building block by other Flux components.
flux-kvs(1) is a command line utility that operates on the KVS.
It is a very thin layer on top of a C API.

The Flux KVS stores JSON values under string keys.  The keys are
hierarchical, using "." as a path separator, analogous to "/" separated
UNIX file paths.  A single "." represents the root directory of
the KVS.

The KVS is distributed among the ranks of a comms session.  Rank 0
is the leader, and other ranks are caching followers.  All writes are flushed
to the leader during a commit operation.  Data is stored in a hash tree
such that every commit results in a new root hash.  Each new root hash
is multicast across the session.  When followers update their root hash,
they atomically update their view to match the leader.  There may be a
delay after a commit while old data is served on a follower that has not yet
updated its root hash, thus the Flux KVS consistency model is "eventually
consistent".  Followers cache data temporally and fault in new data through
their parent in the overlay network.

Different KVS namespaces can be created in which kvs values can be
read from/written to.  By default, all KVS operations operate on the
default KVS namespace "primary".  An alternate namespace can be
prefixing the name to a key using the format 'ns:<NAMESPACE>/<KEY>',
specifying the namespace via the '--namespace' option, or by setting
the namespace in the environment variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.

flux-kvs(1) runs a KVS 'COMMAND'.  The possible commands and their
arguments are described below.

COMMON OPTIONS
--------------
*-N, --namespace*='name'::
Specify a namespace to be used in all KVS commands.  A namespace
specified via this option overrides a namespace set in the environment
variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.  This does not override the namespace
specified via a prefix to a key.

COMMANDS
--------
*namespace-create* [-o owner] 'name' ['name...']::
Create a new kvs namespace.  User may specify an alternate userid of a
user that owns the namespace via '-o'.  Specifying an alternate owner
would allow a non-instance owner to read/write to a namespace.

*namespace-remove* 'name' ['name...']::
Remove a kvs namespace.

*namespace-list*::
List all current namespaces and info on each namespace.

*get* [-j|-r|-t] [-a treeobj] [-l] [-w] [-W] [-c count] 'key' ['key...']::
Retrieve the value stored under 'key'.  If nothing has been stored under
'key', display an error message.  If no options, value is displayed with
a newline appended (if value length is nonzero).  If '-l', a 'key=' prefix is
added. If '-j', value is interpreted as encoded JSON and formatted accordingly.
If '-r', value is displayed without a newline.  If '-t', the RFC 11 object
is displayed.  '-a treeobj' causes the lookup to be relative to an RFC 11
snapshot reference.  If '-w', after the initial value, display the
new value each time the key is written to until interrupted, or if '-c count'
is specified, until 'count' values have been displayed.  If the
initial value does not yet exist, `-W` can be specified to wait for it
to be created.

*put* [-j|-r|-t] [-n] [-A] 'key=value' ['key=value...']::
Store 'value' under 'key' and commit it.  If it already has a value,
overwrite it.  If no options, value is stored directly.  If '-j', it is
first encoded as JSON, then stored.  If '-r' or '-t', the value may optionally
be read from standard input if specified as "-".  If '-r', the value may
include embedded NULL bytes.  If '-t', value is stored as a RFC 11 object.
'-n' prevents the commit from being merged with with other contemporaneous
commits.  '-A' appends the value to a key instead of overwriting the value.
Append is incompatible with the -j option.

*ls* [-R] [-d] [-F] [-w COLS] [-1] ['key' ...]::
Display directory referred to by _key_, or "." (root) if unspecified.
Options are roughly equivalent to a subset of ls(1) options.
'-R' lists directory recursively.  '-d' displays directory not its contents.
'-F' classifies files with one character suffix (. is directory, @ is symlink).
'-w COLS' sets the terminal width in characters.  '-1' causes output to be
displayed in one column.

*dir* [-R] [-d] [-w COLS] [-a treeobj] ['key']::
Display all keys and their values under the directory 'key'.
If 'key' does not exist or is not a directory, display an error message.
If 'key' is not provided, "." (root of the namespace) is assumed.  If '-R'
is specified, recursively display keys under subdirectories.  If '-d' is
specified, do not output key values.  Output is truncated to fit the
terminal width.  '-w COLS' sets the terminal width (0=unlimited).
'-a treeobj' causes the lookup to be relative to an RFC 11 snapshot reference.

*unlink* [-R] [-f] 'key' ['key...']::
Remove 'key' from the KVS and commit the change.  If 'key' represents
a directory, specify '-R' to remove all keys underneath it.  If '-f' is
specified, ignore nonexistent files.

*link* 'target' 'linkname'::
Create a new name for 'target', similar to a symbolic link, and commit
the change.  'target' does not have to exist.  If 'linkname' exists,
it is overwritten.

*readlink* [-a treeobj] 'key' ['key...']::
Retrieve the key a link refers to rather than its value, as would be
returned by *get*.  '-a treeobj' causes the lookup to be relative to
an RFC 11 snapshot reference.

*mkdir* 'key' ['key...']::
Create an empty directory and commit the change.  If 'key' exists,
it is overwritten.

*copy* 'source' 'destination'::
Copy 'source' key to 'destination' key.  If a directory is copied, a new
reference is created; it is unnecessary for *copy* to recurse into 'source'.

*move* 'source' 'destination'::
Like *copy*, but 'source' is unlinked after the copy.

*dropcache* [--all]::
Tell the local KVS to drop any cache it is holding.  If '--all' is
specified, send an event across the comms session instructing all KVS
instances to drop their caches.

*watch* [-R] [-d] [-o] [-c count] 'key'::
Watch 'key' and output changes.  If 'key' is a single value, each
change will be displayed on a line of output.  If 'key' is a
directory, changes within the directory and changes within it will be
displayed.  If '-R' is specified, recursively display keys under
subdirectories.  If '-d' is specified, do not output key values.  If
'count' is specified, display at most 'count' changes.  Otherwise,
this command runs forever.  If '-o' is specified, output the current
value before outputting changes.

*version*::
Display the current KVS version, an integer value.  The version starts
at zero and is incremented on each KVS commit.  Note that some commits
may be aggregated for performance and the version will be incremented
once for the aggregation, so it cannot be used as a direct count of
commit requests.

*wait* 'version'::
Block until the KVS version reaches 'version' or greater.  A simple form
of synchronization between peers is:  node A puts a value, commits it,
reads version, sends version to node B.  Node B waits for version, gets
value.

*getroot* [-w] [-W] [-c count] [-s | -o | -b]::
Retrieve the current KVS root, displaying it as an RFC 11 dirref object.
If '-b' is specified, display it as a blobref.  If '-o' is specified,
display the namespace owner.  If '-s' is specified, display the root
sequence number.  If '-w' is specified, display the current root,
then a new value each time it is updated, up to 'count', if specified.
If the namespace does not yet exist, `-W` can be specified to wait for
it to be created.

*eventlog get* [-w] [-c count] [-u] 'key'::
Display the contents of an RFC 18 KVS eventlog referred to by 'key'.
If '-u' is specified, display the log in raw form, otherwise format the
dates as ISO 8601.  If '-w' is specified, after the existing contents
have been displayed, the eventlog is monitored and updates are
displayed as they are committed.  This runs until the program is
interrupted or an error occurs, unless the number of events is limited
with the '-c' option.

*eventlog append* [-t SECONDS] 'key' 'name' ['context ...']::
Append an event to an RFC 18 KVS eventlog referred to by 'key'.
The event 'name' and optional 'context' are specified on the command line.
The timestamp may optionally be specified with '-t' as decimal seconds since
the UNIX epoch (UTC), otherwise the current wall clock is used.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]

Commit message:

cmd/flux-kvs: Add --full option to kvs get

doc/man1/flux-kvs.adoc, after:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-KVS(1)
===========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-kvs - Flux key-value store utility


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *kvs* 'COMMAND' ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
The Flux key-value store (KVS) is a simple, distributed data storage
service used a building block by other Flux components.
flux-kvs(1) is a command line utility that operates on the KVS.
It is a very thin layer on top of a C API.

The Flux KVS stores JSON values under string keys.  The keys are
hierarchical, using "." as a path separator, analogous to "/" separated
UNIX file paths.  A single "." represents the root directory of
the KVS.

The KVS is distributed among the ranks of a comms session.  Rank 0
is the leader, and other ranks are caching followers.  All writes are flushed
to the leader during a commit operation.  Data is stored in a hash tree
such that every commit results in a new root hash.  Each new root hash
is multicast across the session.  When followers update their root hash,
they atomically update their view to match the leader.  There may be a
delay after a commit while old data is served on a follower that has not yet
updated its root hash, thus the Flux KVS consistency model is "eventually
consistent".  Followers cache data temporally and fault in new data through
their parent in the overlay network.

Different KVS namespaces can be created in which kvs values can be
read from/written to.  By default, all KVS operations operate on the
default KVS namespace "primary".  An alternate namespace can be
prefixing the name to a key using the format 'ns:<NAMESPACE>/<KEY>',
specifying the namespace via the '--namespace' option, or by setting
the namespace in the environment variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.

flux-kvs(1) runs a KVS 'COMMAND'.  The possible commands and their
arguments are described below.

COMMON OPTIONS
--------------
*-N, --namespace*='name'::
Specify a namespace to be used in all KVS commands.  A namespace
specified via this option overrides a namespace set in the environment
variable FLUX_KVS_NAMESPACE.  This does not override the namespace
specified via a prefix to a key.

COMMANDS
--------
*namespace-create* [-o owner] 'name' ['name...']::
Create a new kvs namespace.  User may specify an alternate userid of a
user that owns the namespace via '-o'.  Specifying an alternate owner
would allow a non-instance owner to read/write to a namespace.

*namespace-remove* 'name' ['name...']::
Remove a kvs namespace.

*namespace-list*::
List all current namespaces and info on each namespace.

*get* [-j|-r|-t] [-a treeobj] [-l] [-w] [-W] [-f] [-c count] 'key' ['key...']::
Retrieve the value stored under 'key'.  If nothing has been stored under
'key', display an error message.  If no options, value is displayed with
a newline appended (if value length is nonzero).  If '-l', a 'key=' prefix is
added. If '-j', value is interpreted as encoded JSON and formatted accordingly.
If '-r', value is displayed without a newline.  If '-t', the RFC 11 object
is displayed.  '-a treeobj' causes the lookup to be relative to an RFC 11
snapshot reference.  If '-w', after the initial value, display the
new value each time the key is written to until interrupted, or if '-c count'
is specified, until 'count' values have been displayed.  If the
initial value does not yet exist, `-W` can be specified to wait for it
to be created.  By default, only a direct write to a key is monitored,
which may miss several unique situations, such as the replacement of
an entire parent directory.  The '-f' option can be specified to
monitor for many of these unique situations.

*put* [-j|-r|-t] [-n] [-A] 'key=value' ['key=value...']::
Store 'value' under 'key' and commit it.  If it already has a value,
overwrite it.  If no options, value is stored directly.  If '-j', it is
first encoded as JSON, then stored.  If '-r' or '-t', the value may optionally
be read from standard input if specified as "-".  If '-r', the value may
include embedded NULL bytes.  If '-t', value is stored as a RFC 11 object.
'-n' prevents the commit from being merged with with other contemporaneous
commits.  '-A' appends the value to a key instead of overwriting the value.
Append is incompatible with the -j option.

*ls* [-R] [-d] [-F] [-w COLS] [-1] ['key' ...]::
Display directory referred to by _key_, or "." (root) if unspecified.
Options are roughly equivalent to a subset of ls(1) options.
'-R' lists directory recursively.  '-d' displays directory not its contents.
'-F' classifies files with one character suffix (. is directory, @ is symlink).
'-w COLS' sets the terminal width in characters.  '-1' causes output to be
displayed in one column.

*dir* [-R] [-d] [-w COLS] [-a treeobj] ['key']::
Display all keys and their values under the directory 'key'.
If 'key' does not exist or is not a directory, display an error message.
If 'key' is not provided, "." (root of the namespace) is assumed.  If '-R'
is specified, recursively display keys under subdirectories.  If '-d' is
specified, do not output key values.  Output is truncated to fit the
terminal width.  '-w COLS' sets the terminal width (0=unlimited).
'-a treeobj' causes the lookup to be relative to an RFC 11 snapshot reference.

*unlink* [-R] [-f] 'key' ['key...']::
Remove 'key' from the KVS and commit the change.  If 'key' represents
a directory, specify '-R' to remove all keys underneath it.  If '-f' is
specified, ignore nonexistent files.

*link* 'target' 'linkname'::
Create a new name for 'target', similar to a symbolic link, and commit
the change.  'target' does not have to exist.  If 'linkname' exists,
it is overwritten.

*readlink* [-a treeobj] 'key' ['key...']::
Retrieve the key a link refers to rather than its value, as would be
returned by *get*.  '-a treeobj' causes the lookup to be relative to
an RFC 11 snapshot reference.

*mkdir* 'key' ['key...']::
Create an empty directory and commit the change.  If 'key' exists,
it is overwritten.

*copy* 'source' 'destination'::
Copy 'source' key to 'destination' key.  If a directory is copied, a new
reference is created; it is unnecessary for *copy* to recurse into 'source'.

*move* 'source' 'destination'::
Like *copy*, but 'source' is unlinked after the copy.

*dropcache* [--all]::
Tell the local KVS to drop any cache it is holding.  If '--all' is
specified, send an event across the comms session instructing all KVS
instances to drop their caches.

*watch* [-R] [-d] [-o] [-c count] 'key'::
Watch 'key' and output changes.  If 'key' is a single value, each
change will be displayed on a line of output.  If 'key' is a
directory, changes within the directory and changes within it will be
displayed.  If '-R' is specified, recursively display keys under
subdirectories.  If '-d' is specified, do not output key values.  If
'count' is specified, display at most 'count' changes.  Otherwise,
this command runs forever.  If '-o' is specified, output the current
value before outputting changes.

*version*::
Display the current KVS version, an integer value.  The version starts
at zero and is incremented on each KVS commit.  Note that some commits
may be aggregated for performance and the version will be incremented
once for the aggregation, so it cannot be used as a direct count of
commit requests.

*wait* 'version'::
Block until the KVS version reaches 'version' or greater.  A simple form
of synchronization between peers is:  node A puts a value, commits it,
reads version, sends version to node B.  Node B waits for version, gets
value.

*getroot* [-w] [-W] [-c count] [-s | -o | -b]::
Retrieve the current KVS root, displaying it as an RFC 11 dirref object.
If '-b' is specified, display it as a blobref.  If '-o' is specified,
display the namespace owner.  If '-s' is specified, display the root
sequence number.  If '-w' is specified, display the current root,
then a new value each time it is updated, up to 'count', if specified.
If the namespace does not yet exist, `-W` can be specified to wait for
it to be created.

*eventlog get* [-w] [-c count] [-u] 'key'::
Display the contents of an RFC 18 KVS eventlog referred to by 'key'.
If '-u' is specified, display the log in raw form, otherwise format the
dates as ISO 8601.  If '-w' is specified, after the existing contents
have been displayed, the eventlog is monitored and updates are
displayed as they are committed.  This runs until the program is
interrupted or an error occurs, unless the number of events is limited
with the '-c' option.

*eventlog append* [-t SECONDS] 'key' 'name' ['context ...']::
Append an event to an RFC 18 KVS eventlog referred to by 'key'.
The event 'name' and optional 'context' are specified on the command line.
The timestamp may optionally be specified with '-t' as decimal seconds since
the UNIX epoch (UTC), otherwise the current wall clock is used.

AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]
