doc/man1/flux-queue.rst, before:

.. flux-help-description: list and manipulate flux queues
.. flux-help-section: instance

=============
flux-queue(1)
=============


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **queue** **list** [*-q* *QUEUES,...*] [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*]
| **flux** **queue** **status** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*QUEUE*]

| **flux** **queue** **disable** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*--nocheckpoint*] [*-m* *reason*] [*QUEUE*]
| **flux** **queue** **enable** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*QUEUE*]

| **flux** **queue** **stop** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*--nocheckpoint*] [*-m* *reason*] [*QUEUE*]
| **flux** **queue** **start** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*QUEUE*]

| **flux** **queue** **drain** [*--timeout=DURATION*]
| **flux** **queue** **idle** [*--timeout=DURATION*]


DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux queue

The :program:`flux queue` command operates on Flux job queue(s).

By default, Flux has one anonymous queue.  Multiple named queues may be
configured - see :man5:`flux-config-queues`.

COMMANDS
========

:program:`flux queue` has the following subcommands:

list
----

.. program:: flux queue list

List queue status, defaults, and limits.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

   Limit output to specified queues

.. option:: -n, --no-header

   Do not output column headers in ``list`` output.

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

   Specify output format in ``list`` using Python's string format syntax.
   See `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ below for field names.

status
------

.. program:: flux queue status

Report the current queue status.

.. option:: -q, --queue=NAME

   Select a queue by name.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

disable
-------

.. program:: flux queue disable

Prevent jobs from being submitted to the queue, with an optional reason that is
shown to submitting users.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

.. option:: --nocheckpoint

   Do not preserve the new queue disabled state across a Flux instance restart.

.. options:: -m, --message=REASON

   Add a reason that the queue is disabled. This will be shown to users
   who attempt to submit to the queue.

enable
------

.. program:: flux queue enable

Allow jobs to be submitted to the queue.

.. option:: -q, --queue=NAME

   Select a queue by name.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

stop
----

.. program:: flux queue stop

Stop allocating resources to jobs.  Pending jobs remain enqueued, and
running jobs continue to run, but no new jobs are allocated
resources.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

.. option:: --nocheckpoint

   Do not preserve the new queue stop state across a Flux instance restart.

.. options:: -m, --message=REASON

   Add a reason that the queue is stopped. This message will be displayed
   in the output of :command:`flux queue status`.

start
-----

.. program:: flux queue start

Start allocating resources to jobs.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

drain
-----

.. program:: flux queue drain

Block until all queues become empty.  It is sometimes useful to run after
:program:`flux queue disable`, to wait until the system is quiescent and can
be taken down for maintenance.

.. option:: --timeout=FSD

   Limit the time that the command` will block.

idle
----

.. program:: flux queue idle

Block until all queues become `idle` (no jobs in RUN or CLEANUP state,
and no outstanding alloc requests to the scheduler).  It may be useful to run
after :program:`flux queue stop` to wait until the scheduler and execution
system are quiescent before maintenance involving them.

.. option:: --timeout=FSD

   Limit the time that the command` will block.


OUTPUT FORMAT
=============

The :option:`flux queue list --format` option can be used to specify an
output format using Python's string format syntax or a defined format by
name. For a list of built-in and configured formats use :option:`-o help`.
An alternate default format can be set via the
:envvar:`FLUX_QUEUE_LIST_FORMAT_DEFAULT` environment variable.
A configuration snippet for an existing named format may be
generated with :option:`--format=get-config=NAME`.  See :man1:`flux-jobs`
*OUTPUT FORMAT* section for a detailed description of this syntax.

The following field names can be specified:

**queue**
   queue name

**queuem**
   queue name, but default queue is marked up with an asterisk

**submission**
   Description of queue submission status: ``enabled`` or ``disabled``

**scheduling**
   Description of queue scheduling status: ``started`` or ``stopped``

**enabled**
   Single character submission status: ``✔`` if enabled, ``✗`` if disabled.

**started**
   Single character scheduling status: ``✔`` if started, ``✗`` if stopped.

**enabled.ascii**
   Single character submission status: ``y`` if enabled, ``n`` if disabled.

**started.ascii**
   Single character scheduling status: ``y`` if started, ``n`` if stopped.

**defaults.timelimit**
   default timelimit for jobs submitted to the queue

**limits.timelimit**
   max timelimit for jobs submitted to the queue

**limits.range.nnodes**
   range of nodes that can be requested for this queue

**limits.range.ncores**
   range of cores that can be requested for this queue

**limits.range.ngpus**
   range of gpus that can be requested for this queue

**limits.range.effective.nnodes**
   effective range of nodes that can be requested for this queue.
   The upper end of the range will display the smaller of the policy
   limit and the total nodes currently assigned to the queue.

**limits.range.effective.ncores**
   effective range of cores that can be requested for this queue.
   The upper end of the range will display the smaller of the policy
   limit and the total cores currently assigned to the queue.

**limits.range.effective.ngpus**
   effective range of gpus that can be requested for this queue.
   The upper end of the range will display the smaller of the policy
   limit and the total gpus currently assigned to the queue.

**limits.min.nnodes**
   minimum number of nodes that must be requested for this queue

**limits.max.nnodes**
   maximum number of nodes that can be requested for this queue

**limits.min.ncores**
   minimum number of cores that must be requested for this queue

**limits.max.ncores**
   maximum number of cores that can be requested for this queue

**limits.min.ngpus**
   minimum number of gpus that must be requested for this queue

**limits.max.ngpus**
   maximum number of gpus that can be requested for this queue

**resources.{all,free,allocated,up,down}.{nnodes,ncores,ngpus}**
   Counts of resources in various states (all available, currently free,
   currently allocated, up, and down) for this queue.

RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

| :doc:`rfc:spec_23`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_33`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-jobs`, :man1:`flux-submit`

Commit message:

doc: add note on use of flux queue drain
Problem: It is common to use `flux queue drain` to wait for all
submitted jobs to finish in flux-batch(1) scripts.  However, this
may not be obvious to new flux users.

Add a note about this in flux-queue(1) if users look for information
on why this is used in flux batch scripts.

doc/man1/flux-queue.rst, after:

.. flux-help-description: list and manipulate flux queues
.. flux-help-section: instance

=============
flux-queue(1)
=============


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **queue** **list** [*-q* *QUEUES,...*] [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*]
| **flux** **queue** **status** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*QUEUE*]

| **flux** **queue** **disable** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*--nocheckpoint*] [*-m* *reason*] [*QUEUE*]
| **flux** **queue** **enable** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*QUEUE*]

| **flux** **queue** **stop** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*--nocheckpoint*] [*-m* *reason*] [*QUEUE*]
| **flux** **queue** **start** [*-a*] [*-v*] [*--quiet*] [*QUEUE*]

| **flux** **queue** **drain** [*--timeout=DURATION*]
| **flux** **queue** **idle** [*--timeout=DURATION*]


DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux queue

The :program:`flux queue` command operates on Flux job queue(s).

By default, Flux has one anonymous queue.  Multiple named queues may be
configured - see :man5:`flux-config-queues`.

COMMANDS
========

:program:`flux queue` has the following subcommands:

list
----

.. program:: flux queue list

List queue status, defaults, and limits.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

   Limit output to specified queues

.. option:: -n, --no-header

   Do not output column headers in ``list`` output.

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

   Specify output format in ``list`` using Python's string format syntax.
   See `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ below for field names.

status
------

.. program:: flux queue status

Report the current queue status.

.. option:: -q, --queue=NAME

   Select a queue by name.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

disable
-------

.. program:: flux queue disable

Prevent jobs from being submitted to the queue, with an optional reason that is
shown to submitting users.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

.. option:: --nocheckpoint

   Do not preserve the new queue disabled state across a Flux instance restart.

.. options:: -m, --message=REASON

   Add a reason that the queue is disabled. This will be shown to users
   who attempt to submit to the queue.

enable
------

.. program:: flux queue enable

Allow jobs to be submitted to the queue.

.. option:: -q, --queue=NAME

   Select a queue by name.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

stop
----

.. program:: flux queue stop

Stop allocating resources to jobs.  Pending jobs remain enqueued, and
running jobs continue to run, but no new jobs are allocated
resources.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

.. option:: --nocheckpoint

   Do not preserve the new queue stop state across a Flux instance restart.

.. options:: -m, --message=REASON

   Add a reason that the queue is stopped. This message will be displayed
   in the output of :command:`flux queue status`.

start
-----

.. program:: flux queue start

Start allocating resources to jobs.

.. option:: -a, --all

   Select all queues.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   Display more detail about internal job manager state.

.. option:: --quiet

   Display only errors.

drain
-----

.. program:: flux queue drain

Block until all queues become empty.  It is sometimes useful to run after
:program:`flux queue disable`, to wait until the system is quiescent and can
be taken down for maintenance.

.. option:: --timeout=FSD

   Limit the time that the command` will block.

.. note::
   :program:`flux queue drain` can be used as a simple mechanism to wait for
   all submitted jobs to complete in :command:`flux-batch` scripts.

idle
----

.. program:: flux queue idle

Block until all queues become `idle` (no jobs in RUN or CLEANUP state,
and no outstanding alloc requests to the scheduler).  It may be useful to run
after :program:`flux queue stop` to wait until the scheduler and execution
system are quiescent before maintenance involving them.

.. option:: --timeout=FSD

   Limit the time that the command` will block.


OUTPUT FORMAT
=============

The :option:`flux queue list --format` option can be used to specify an
output format using Python's string format syntax or a defined format by
name. For a list of built-in and configured formats use :option:`-o help`.
An alternate default format can be set via the
:envvar:`FLUX_QUEUE_LIST_FORMAT_DEFAULT` environment variable.
A configuration snippet for an existing named format may be
generated with :option:`--format=get-config=NAME`.  See :man1:`flux-jobs`
*OUTPUT FORMAT* section for a detailed description of this syntax.

The following field names can be specified:

**queue**
   queue name

**queuem**
   queue name, but default queue is marked up with an asterisk

**submission**
   Description of queue submission status: ``enabled`` or ``disabled``

**scheduling**
   Description of queue scheduling status: ``started`` or ``stopped``

**enabled**
   Single character submission status: ``✔`` if enabled, ``✗`` if disabled.

**started**
   Single character scheduling status: ``✔`` if started, ``✗`` if stopped.

**enabled.ascii**
   Single character submission status: ``y`` if enabled, ``n`` if disabled.

**started.ascii**
   Single character scheduling status: ``y`` if started, ``n`` if stopped.

**defaults.timelimit**
   default timelimit for jobs submitted to the queue

**limits.timelimit**
   max timelimit for jobs submitted to the queue

**limits.range.nnodes**
   range of nodes that can be requested for this queue

**limits.range.ncores**
   range of cores that can be requested for this queue

**limits.range.ngpus**
   range of gpus that can be requested for this queue

**limits.range.effective.nnodes**
   effective range of nodes that can be requested for this queue.
   The upper end of the range will display the smaller of the policy
   limit and the total nodes currently assigned to the queue.

**limits.range.effective.ncores**
   effective range of cores that can be requested for this queue.
   The upper end of the range will display the smaller of the policy
   limit and the total cores currently assigned to the queue.

**limits.range.effective.ngpus**
   effective range of gpus that can be requested for this queue.
   The upper end of the range will display the smaller of the policy
   limit and the total gpus currently assigned to the queue.

**limits.min.nnodes**
   minimum number of nodes that must be requested for this queue

**limits.max.nnodes**
   maximum number of nodes that can be requested for this queue

**limits.min.ncores**
   minimum number of cores that must be requested for this queue

**limits.max.ncores**
   maximum number of cores that can be requested for this queue

**limits.min.ngpus**
   minimum number of gpus that must be requested for this queue

**limits.max.ngpus**
   maximum number of gpus that can be requested for this queue

**resources.{all,free,allocated,up,down}.{nnodes,ncores,ngpus}**
   Counts of resources in various states (all available, currently free,
   currently allocated, up, and down) for this queue.

RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

| :doc:`rfc:spec_23`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_33`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-jobs`, :man1:`flux-submit`, :man1:`flux-batch`
