doc/man1/flux-hwloc.adoc, before:

// flux-help-command: hwloc
// flux-help-description: Control/query resource-hwloc service
FLUX-HWLOC(1)
=============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-hwloc - Control/query resource-hwloc service


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *hwloc* *info* ['OPTIONS']

*flux* *hwloc* *lstopo* ['lstopo-OPTIONS']

*flux* *hwloc* *reload* ['OPTIONS'] ['DIR']

*flux* *hwloc* *topology* ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
The Flux `resource-hwloc` module collects system topology at
each flux-broker using the Portable Hardware Locality (hwloc)
library.

The *flux hwloc* command offers simple interfaces to query and
control this hwloc data.

COMMANDS
--------

*flux hwloc* requires a 'COMMAND' argument. The supported commands
are

*info*::
Dump a short-form summary of the total number of Machines, Cores,
and Processing Units (PUs) available across all flux-brokers
in the current instance.

*lstopo*::
Run `lstopo(1)` against the full hardware hierarchy configured in the
current Flux instance. Extra `OPTIONS` are passed along to the system
`lstopo(1)`. + 
By default, *flux hwloc lstopo* generates console output.
For graphical output, try:  *flux hwloc lstopo --of graphical*.

*reload* ['OPTIONS'] ['DIR']::
Reload hwloc topology information, optionally loading hwloc XML files
from `DIR/<rank>.xml` files.
Options:

 --rank='NODESET':::
 -r 'NODESET':::
 Only reload XML on provided 'NODESET'.  See NODESET FORMAT below for
 more information.

 --walk-topology=['yes|no']:::
 -t ['yes|no']:::
 If 'yes', force resource-hwloc module to walk full topology on each reloaded
 rank and insert broken down topology into KVS under. If 'no', force disable
 the topology walk if enabled by default in module.

*topology*::
Dump current aggregate topology XML for the current session to stdout.


NODESET FORMAT
--------------
include::NODESET.adoc[]


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
lstopo(1), hwloc: https://www.open-mpi.org/projects/hwloc/

Commit message:

doc: update flux-hwloc(1)
Update the flux-hwloc(1) man page to match new options and behavior
of flux-hwloc subcommands.

doc/man1/flux-hwloc.adoc, after:

// flux-help-command: hwloc
// flux-help-description: Control/query resource-hwloc service
FLUX-HWLOC(1)
=============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-hwloc - Control/query resource-hwloc service


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *hwloc* *info* ['OPTIONS']

*flux* *hwloc* *lstopo* ['lstopo-OPTIONS']

*flux* *hwloc* *reload* ['OPTIONS'] ['DIR']

*flux* *hwloc* *topology* ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
The *flux-hwloc* utility provides a mechanism to collect
system topology from each flux-broker using the Portable Hardware
Locality (hwloc) library, and to query the resulting data
stored in the Flux Key Value Store (KVS).

COMMANDS
--------

*flux hwloc* requires a 'COMMAND' argument. The supported commands
are

*info* ['-l,--local'|'-r,--rank=NODESET']::
Dump a short-form summary of the total number of Machines, Cores,
and Processing Units (PUs) available across all flux-brokers
in the current instance. With '--ranks', dump information for
only the specified ranks. With '--local' dump local system information.

*lstopo*::
Run `lstopo(1)` against the full hardware hierarchy configured in the
current Flux instance. Extra `OPTIONS` are passed along to the system
`lstopo(1)`. + 
By default, *flux hwloc lstopo* generates console output.
For graphical output, try:  *flux hwloc lstopo --of graphical*.

*reload* ['-r,--rank=NODESET'] ['-v,--verbose] ['DIR']::
Reload hwloc topology information, optionally loading hwloc XML files
from `DIR/<rank>.xml` files. With '--rank' only reload XML on specified
ranks. With '--verbose' this command runs with extra debugging and
timing information.

*topology* ['-l,--local'|'-r,--rank=NODESET']::
Dump current aggregate topology XML for the current session to stdout.
With '--rank' only dump aggregate topology for specified ranks. With
'--local' dump topology XML for the local system.


NODESET FORMAT
--------------
include::NODESET.adoc[]


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
lstopo(1), hwloc: https://www.open-mpi.org/projects/hwloc/
