doc/man1/flux-exec.adoc, before:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-EXEC(1)
============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-exec - Execute processes across flux ranks


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *exec* [--noinput] ['--labelio] ['--dir=DIR'] ['--rank=NODESET'] ['--verbose'] COMMANDS...


DESCRIPTION
-----------
flux-exec(1) runs commands across one or more flux-broker ranks using
the 'cmb.exec' service. The commands are executed as direct children
of the broker, and the broker handles buffering stdout and stderr and
sends the output back to flux-exec(1) which copies output to its own
stdout and stderr.

On receipt of SIGINT and SIGTERM signals, flux-exec(1) shall forward
the received signal to all currently running remote processes.

flux-exec(1) is meant as an administrative and test utility, and cannot
be used to launch Flux jobs.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
In the case that all processes are successfully launched, the exit status
of flux-exec(1) is the largest of the remote process exit codes.

If a non-existent rank is targeted, flux-exec(1) will return with
code 68 (EX_NOHOST from sysexits.h).

If one or more remote commands are terminated by a signal, then flux-exec(1)
exits with exit code 128+signo.

OPTIONS
-------

*-l, --labelio*::
Label lines of output with the source RANK.

*-n, --noinput*::
Do not attempt to forward stdin.  Send EOF to remote process stdin.

*-d, --dir*'=DIR'::
Set the working directory of remote 'COMMANDS' to 'DIR'. The default is to
propagate the current working directory of flux-exec(1).

*-r, --rank*'=NODESET'::
Target specific ranks in 'NODESET'. Default is to target "all" ranks.
See NODESET FORMAT below for more information.

*-v, --verbose*::
Run with more verbosity.


NODESET FORMAT
--------------
include::NODESET.adoc[]


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]

Commit message:

cmd/flux-exec: Support forced-exit mechanism
In the event a subprocess is stuck or ignoring SIGINT, allow
users the ability to force flux-exec to exit by sending two
SIGINTs (typically via Ctrl+C) in short succession.

Fixes #1981

doc/man1/flux-exec.adoc, after:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-EXEC(1)
============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-exec - Execute processes across flux ranks


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *exec* [--noinput] ['--labelio] ['--dir=DIR'] ['--rank=NODESET'] ['--verbose'] COMMANDS...


DESCRIPTION
-----------
flux-exec(1) runs commands across one or more flux-broker ranks using
the 'cmb.exec' service. The commands are executed as direct children
of the broker, and the broker handles buffering stdout and stderr and
sends the output back to flux-exec(1) which copies output to its own
stdout and stderr.

On receipt of SIGINT and SIGTERM signals, flux-exec(1) shall forward
the received signal to all currently running remote processes.

In the event subprocesses are hanging or ignoring SIGINT, two SIGINT
signals (typically sent via Ctrl+C) in short succession can force
flux-exec(1) to exit.

flux-exec(1) is meant as an administrative and test utility, and cannot
be used to launch Flux jobs.

EXIT STATUS
-----------
In the case that all processes are successfully launched, the exit status
of flux-exec(1) is the largest of the remote process exit codes.

If a non-existent rank is targeted, flux-exec(1) will return with
code 68 (EX_NOHOST from sysexits.h).

If one or more remote commands are terminated by a signal, then flux-exec(1)
exits with exit code 128+signo.

OPTIONS
-------

*-l, --labelio*::
Label lines of output with the source RANK.

*-n, --noinput*::
Do not attempt to forward stdin.  Send EOF to remote process stdin.

*-d, --dir*'=DIR'::
Set the working directory of remote 'COMMANDS' to 'DIR'. The default is to
propagate the current working directory of flux-exec(1).

*-r, --rank*'=NODESET'::
Target specific ranks in 'NODESET'. Default is to target "all" ranks.
See NODESET FORMAT below for more information.

*-v, --verbose*::
Run with more verbosity.


NODESET FORMAT
--------------
include::NODESET.adoc[]


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]
