doc/man1/flux-fsck.rst, before:

============
flux-fsck(1)
============


SYNOPSIS
========

**flux** **fsck** [*OPTIONS*]


DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program flux fsck

The :program:`flux fsck` checks the integrity of the KVS backing
store.  By default, it starts with the most recent checkpoint (root version)
written to the backing store.


OPTIONS
=======

.. option:: -h, --help

   Summarize available options.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   List keys on stderr as they are validated.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Don't output diagnostic messages and discovered errors.

.. option:: -r, --rootref=<BLOBREF|index>

   Normally the check starts with the blobref in the most recent KVS
   checkpoint.  This option can direct flux-fsck to start at an
   arbitrary point by specifying a BLOBREF that points to an RFC 11
   tree object of type "dir".  An numerical index can be direct
   flux-fsck to start at an older checkpoint (i.e. 0 = use current checkpoint,
   1 = checkpoint before current checkpoint, ...).

.. option:: -c, --checkpoint

   If a root reference specified by :option:`--rootref` does not
   contain any errors, checkpoint that root reference to the be new
   checkpointed root reference.


EXIT STATUS
===========

0
  Content store valid

1
  One or more errors were discovered


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_10`

:doc:`rfc:spec_11`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-content`, :man1:`flux-kvs`

Commit message:

doc: document flux-fsck --scan
Problem: The new --scan option for flux-fsck is not documented.

Add documentation in flux-fsck(1).

doc/man1/flux-fsck.rst, after:

============
flux-fsck(1)
============


SYNOPSIS
========

**flux** **fsck** [*OPTIONS*]


DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program flux fsck

The :program:`flux fsck` checks the integrity of the KVS backing
store.  By default, it starts with the most recent checkpoint (root version)
written to the backing store.


OPTIONS
=======

.. option:: -h, --help

   Summarize available options.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   List keys on stderr as they are validated.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Don't output diagnostic messages and discovered errors.

.. option:: -r, --rootref=<BLOBREF|index>

   Normally the check starts with the blobref in the most recent KVS
   checkpoint.  This option can direct flux-fsck to start at an
   arbitrary point by specifying a BLOBREF that points to an RFC 11
   tree object of type "dir".  An numerical index can be direct
   flux-fsck to start at an older checkpoint (i.e. 0 = use current checkpoint,
   1 = checkpoint before current checkpoint, ...).

.. option:: -c, --checkpoint

   If a root reference specified by :option:`--rootref` does not
   contain any errors, checkpoint that root reference to the be new
   checkpointed root reference.

.. option:: -S, --scan

   Iterate through all checkpoints to find the most recent checkpoint that
   passes fsck integrity checks.  The index and root reference of the
   checkpoint will be output at the end.  If used in conjunction with
   :option:`--checkpoint`, the discovered checkpoint will be updated.


EXIT STATUS
===========

0
  Content store valid

1
  One or more errors were discovered


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_10`

:doc:`rfc:spec_11`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-content`, :man1:`flux-kvs`
