doc/man1/flux-broker.adoc, before:

// flux-help-description: Invoke Flux comms message broker daemon
FLUX-BROKER(1)
==============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-broker - Flux comms message broker daemon


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux-broker* ['OPTIONS'] ['initial-program' ['args...']]


DESCRIPTION
-----------
flux-broker(1) is a distributed message broker daemon that provides
communications services within a Flux comms session.  It may be
launched as a parallel program under Flux or other resource managers
that support PMI.

Resource manager services are implemented as dynamically loadable
plugins to flux-broker(1), termed "comms modules".

flux-broker(1) instances within a comms session are interconnected using
ZeroMQ sockets, and each is assigned a rank from 0 to size - 1.
The rank 0 node is the root of a tree-based overlay network.
In addition, there is a multicast pub/sub network for events, and
a ring network for debugging.  These networks may be accessed by
Flux commands and comms modules using Flux API services.

A periodic heartbeat event generated by rank 0 is used to synchronize
resource manager activities across the session.

A logging service aggregates Flux log messages across the session and
emits them to a configured destination on rank 0.

After its overlay networks have completed wire-up, flux-broker(1)
starts the initial program on rank 0.  If none is specified on
the broker command line, an interactive shell is launched.


OPTIONS
-------
*-h, --help*::
Summarize available options.

*-v, --verbose*::
Be annoyingly chatty.

*-q, --quiet*::
Suppress messages intended for interactive users.

*-S, --setattr*='ATTR=VAL'::
Set initial value for broker attribute.

*-k, --k-ary*='N'::
Set the branching factor of this comms session's tree based overlay
network (default: 2).

*-H, --heartrate*='N.N'::
Set the session heartrate in seconds.  The valid range is 0.01 to 30.0
(default: 2.0).

*-X, --module-path*='PATH'::
Override the compiled-in module search path (colon-separated).
The default is to search install paths.

*-s, --security*='MODE'::
Set the security mode.  The mode may be 'none', 'plain', or 'curve'
(default: curve).  See flux-keygen(1) for more information.

*-E, --enable-epgm*::
Enable EPGM, a reliable multicast protocol, for event distribution.
Without this option, the tree-based overlay network distributes events.
On large sessions, EPGM should improve scalability and reduce system jitter,
however it requires that network switches support multicast and currently
uses a naive algorithm to select a unique multicast port for the session.
This algorithm should be safe for instances launched directly by the
"native" resource manager, but not yet for instances launched by those
instances.   The first network interface associated with the hostname is
used, and the multicast address is hardwired to 239.192.1.1.

*-I, --shared-ipc-namespace*::
Enable the use of ipc:// sockets for the tree-based overlay network
and event distribution.  This may be set if all ranks of a comms
session share a common $TMPDIR namespace.

*-g, --shutdown-grace*='SECS'::
Specify the shutdown grace period, in seconds (default: guess based
on session size).


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-broker-attributes(7)

Commit message:

broker: Refactor --shared-ipc-namespace
Refactor --shared-ipc-namespace option to configure via the
tbon.endpoint attribute.  Utilize a newly added %B format
specifier for tbon.endpoint that indicates the broker.rundir.

doc/man1/flux-broker.adoc, after:

// flux-help-description: Invoke Flux comms message broker daemon
FLUX-BROKER(1)
==============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-broker - Flux comms message broker daemon


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux-broker* ['OPTIONS'] ['initial-program' ['args...']]


DESCRIPTION
-----------
flux-broker(1) is a distributed message broker daemon that provides
communications services within a Flux comms session.  It may be
launched as a parallel program under Flux or other resource managers
that support PMI.

Resource manager services are implemented as dynamically loadable
plugins to flux-broker(1), termed "comms modules".

flux-broker(1) instances within a comms session are interconnected using
ZeroMQ sockets, and each is assigned a rank from 0 to size - 1.
The rank 0 node is the root of a tree-based overlay network.
In addition, there is a multicast pub/sub network for events, and
a ring network for debugging.  These networks may be accessed by
Flux commands and comms modules using Flux API services.

A periodic heartbeat event generated by rank 0 is used to synchronize
resource manager activities across the session.

A logging service aggregates Flux log messages across the session and
emits them to a configured destination on rank 0.

After its overlay networks have completed wire-up, flux-broker(1)
starts the initial program on rank 0.  If none is specified on
the broker command line, an interactive shell is launched.


OPTIONS
-------
*-h, --help*::
Summarize available options.

*-v, --verbose*::
Be annoyingly chatty.

*-q, --quiet*::
Suppress messages intended for interactive users.

*-S, --setattr*='ATTR=VAL'::
Set initial value for broker attribute.

*-k, --k-ary*='N'::
Set the branching factor of this comms session's tree based overlay
network (default: 2).

*-H, --heartrate*='N.N'::
Set the session heartrate in seconds.  The valid range is 0.01 to 30.0
(default: 2.0).

*-X, --module-path*='PATH'::
Override the compiled-in module search path (colon-separated).
The default is to search install paths.

*-s, --security*='MODE'::
Set the security mode.  The mode may be 'none', 'plain', or 'curve'
(default: curve).  See flux-keygen(1) for more information.

*-E, --enable-epgm*::
Enable EPGM, a reliable multicast protocol, for event distribution.
Without this option, the tree-based overlay network distributes events.
On large sessions, EPGM should improve scalability and reduce system jitter,
however it requires that network switches support multicast and currently
uses a naive algorithm to select a unique multicast port for the session.
This algorithm should be safe for instances launched directly by the
"native" resource manager, but not yet for instances launched by those
instances.   The first network interface associated with the hostname is
used, and the multicast address is hardwired to 239.192.1.1.

*-I, --shared-ipc-namespace*::
Enable the use of ipc:// sockets for the tree-based overlay network
and event distribution.  This option effectively sets the attribute
tbon.endpoint to 'ipc://%B/req'.  If broker.rundir is not set, one is
created based on a common $TMPDIR namespace.

*-g, --shutdown-grace*='SECS'::
Specify the shutdown grace period, in seconds (default: guess based
on session size).


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-broker-attributes(7)
