doc/man1/flux-dump.rst, before:

============
flux-dump(1)
============


SYNOPSIS
========

**flux** **dump** [*OPTIONS*] *OUTFILE*


DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program flux dump

The :program:`flux dump` command writes a KVS snapshot to a portable archive
format, usually read by :man1:`flux-restore`.

The snapshot source is the primary namespace of the current KVS root by default.
If :option:`--checkpoint` is specified, the snapshot source is the last KVS
checkpoint written to the content backing store.

The archive is a file path or *-* for standard output.  If standard output,
the format is POSIX *ustar* with no compression.  Otherwise the format is
determined by the file extension.  The list of valid extensions depends on the
version of :linux:man3:`libarchive` used to build Flux, but modern versions
support:

.tar
   POSIX *ustar* format, compatible with :linux:man1:`tar`.

.tgz, .tar.gz
   POSIX *ustar* format, compressed with :linux:man1:`gzip`.

.tar.bz2
   POSIX *ustar* format, compressed with :linux:man1:`bzip2`.

.tar.xz
   POSIX *ustar* format, compressed with :linux:man1:`xz`.

.zip
   ZIP archive, compatible with :linux:man1:`unzip`.

.cpio
   POSIX CPIO format, compatible with :linux:man1:`cpio`.

.iso
   ISO9660 CD image


OPTIONS
=======

.. option:: -h, --help

   Summarize available options.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   List keys on stderr as they are dumped instead of a periodic count of
   dumped keys.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Don't show periodic count of dumped keys on stderr.

.. option:: --checkpoint

   Generate snapshot from the latest checkpoint written to the content
   backing store, instead of from the current KVS root.

.. option:: --no-cache

   Bypass the broker content cache and interact directly with the backing
   store.  This may be slightly faster, depending on how frequently the same
   content blobs are referenced by multiple keys.

.. option:: --ignore-failed-read

   If KVS metadata is encountered that references nonexistent blobrefs
   (for example after a disk full event), print an error but skip over the
   KVS key and treat it as a warning.  Without this option, content load
   failures are treated as immediate fatal errors.


OTHER NOTES
===========

KVS commits are atomic and propagate to the root of the namespace.  Because of
this, when :program:`flux dump` archives a snapshot of a live system, it
reflects one point in time, and does not include any changes committed while
the dump is in progress.

Since :program:`flux dump` generates the archive by interacting directly with
the content store, the :option:`--checkpoint` option may be used to dump the
most recent state of the KVS when the KVS module is not loaded.

Only regular values and symbolic links are dumped to the archive.  Directories
are not dumped as independent objects, so empty directories are omitted from
the archive.

KVS symbolic links represent the optional namespace component in the target
as a *NAME::* prefix.

The KVS path separator is converted to the UNIX-compatible slash so that the
archive can be unpacked into a file system if desired.

The modification time of files in the archive is set to the time that
:program:`flux dump` is started if dumping the current KVS root, or to the
timestamp of the checkpoint if :option:`--checkpoint` is used.

The owner and group of files in the archive are set to the credentials of the
user that ran :program:`flux-dump`.

The mode of files in the archive is set to 0644.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_10`

:doc:`rfc:spec_11`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-restore`, :man1:`flux-kvs`

Commit message:

flux-dump: add --sd-notify option
Problem: flux-dump activates systemd notifications when the
broker.sd-notify attribute is set, but that might result in
unintended notifications outside of rc3.

Activate systemd notifications via a new --sd-notify option.
Use this option in rc3.
Update flux-dump(1) man page.

doc/man1/flux-dump.rst, after:

============
flux-dump(1)
============


SYNOPSIS
========

**flux** **dump** [*OPTIONS*] *OUTFILE*


DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program flux dump

The :program:`flux dump` command writes a KVS snapshot to a portable archive
format, usually read by :man1:`flux-restore`.

The snapshot source is the primary namespace of the current KVS root by default.
If :option:`--checkpoint` is specified, the snapshot source is the last KVS
checkpoint written to the content backing store.

The archive is a file path or *-* for standard output.  If standard output,
the format is POSIX *ustar* with no compression.  Otherwise the format is
determined by the file extension.  The list of valid extensions depends on the
version of :linux:man3:`libarchive` used to build Flux, but modern versions
support:

.tar
   POSIX *ustar* format, compatible with :linux:man1:`tar`.

.tgz, .tar.gz
   POSIX *ustar* format, compressed with :linux:man1:`gzip`.

.tar.bz2
   POSIX *ustar* format, compressed with :linux:man1:`bzip2`.

.tar.xz
   POSIX *ustar* format, compressed with :linux:man1:`xz`.

.zip
   ZIP archive, compatible with :linux:man1:`unzip`.

.cpio
   POSIX CPIO format, compatible with :linux:man1:`cpio`.

.iso
   ISO9660 CD image


OPTIONS
=======

.. option:: -h, --help

   Summarize available options.

.. option:: -v, --verbose

   List keys on stderr as they are dumped instead of a periodic count of
   dumped keys.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Don't show periodic count of dumped keys on stderr.

.. option:: --checkpoint

   Generate snapshot from the latest checkpoint written to the content
   backing store, instead of from the current KVS root.

.. option:: --no-cache

   Bypass the broker content cache and interact directly with the backing
   store.  This may be slightly faster, depending on how frequently the same
   content blobs are referenced by multiple keys.

.. option:: --ignore-failed-read

   If KVS metadata is encountered that references nonexistent blobrefs
   (for example after a disk full event), print an error but skip over the
   KVS key and treat it as a warning.  Without this option, content load
   failures are treated as immediate fatal errors.

.. option:: --sd-notify

   Regularly inform the broker of progress so it can reset the systemd
   stop timer in rc3 context and provide human readable progress for
   :program:`systemctl status flux`.

OTHER NOTES
===========

KVS commits are atomic and propagate to the root of the namespace.  Because of
this, when :program:`flux dump` archives a snapshot of a live system, it
reflects one point in time, and does not include any changes committed while
the dump is in progress.

Since :program:`flux dump` generates the archive by interacting directly with
the content store, the :option:`--checkpoint` option may be used to dump the
most recent state of the KVS when the KVS module is not loaded.

Only regular values and symbolic links are dumped to the archive.  Directories
are not dumped as independent objects, so empty directories are omitted from
the archive.

KVS symbolic links represent the optional namespace component in the target
as a *NAME::* prefix.

The KVS path separator is converted to the UNIX-compatible slash so that the
archive can be unpacked into a file system if desired.

The modification time of files in the archive is set to the time that
:program:`flux dump` is started if dumping the current KVS root, or to the
timestamp of the checkpoint if :option:`--checkpoint` is used.

The owner and group of files in the archive are set to the credentials of the
user that ran :program:`flux-dump`.

The mode of files in the archive is set to 0644.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_10`

:doc:`rfc:spec_11`


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-restore`, :man1:`flux-kvs`
