doc/man1/flux-module.rst, before:

==============
flux-module(1)
==============


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **module** **load** [*--name*] *module* [*args...*]
| **flux** **module** **reload** [*--name*] [*--force*] *module* [*args...*]
| **flux** **module** **remove** [*--force*] *name*
| **flux** **module** **list** [*-l*]
| **flux** **module** **stats** [*-R*] [*--clear*] *name*
| **flux** **module** **debug** [*--setbit=VAL*] [*--clearbit=VAL*] [*--set=MASK*] [*--clear=MASK*] *name*
| **flux** **module** **trace** [-f] [*-t TYPE,...*] [-T *topic-glob*] [*name...*]



DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux module

:program:`flux module` manages dynamically loadable :man1:`flux-broker` modules.


COMMANDS
========

load
----

.. program:: flux module load

Load *module*, which may be either the path to a shared object file, including
the ``.so`` suffix, or the basename of a shared object file on the
:envvar:`FLUX_MODULE_PATH`, without the suffix.

When :program:`flux module load` completes successfully, the new module has
entered the running state (see LIST OUTPUT below).

.. option:: -n, --name=NAME

  Override the default module name.  A single shared object file may be
  loaded multiple times under different names.

reload
------

.. program:: flux module reload

Reload module *name*. This is equivalent to running
:program:`flux module remove` followed by :program:`flux module load`.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Suppress failure if *module* is not loaded and proceed with loading.

.. option:: -n, --name=NAME

  Override the default module name.

remove
------

.. program:: flux module reload

Remove module *name*.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Suppress failure if module *name* is not loaded.

.. option:: --cancel

  Use :linux:man3:`pthread_cancel` to remove an unresponsive module.
  This may be useful if the module is not able to respond to the module
  shutdown request because it has not returned control to its reactor loop.
  However, broker module threads are created with *deferred* cancellability,
  so this is only effective if the module thread calls one of the functions
  listed as a cancellation point in :linux:man7:`pthreads`.

list
----

.. program:: flux module list

List the loaded modules.

.. option:: -l, --long

  Include the full DSO path for each module.

stats
-----

.. program:: flux module stats

Request statistics from module *name*. A JSON object containing a set of
counters for each type of Flux message is returned by default, however
the object may be customized on a module basis.

.. option:: -p, --parse=OBJNAME

  *OBJNAME* is a period delimited list of field names that should be walked
  to obtain a specific value or object in the returned JSON.

.. option:: -t, --type=int|double

  Force the returned value to be converted to int or double.

.. option:: -s, --scale=N

  Multiply the returned (int or double) value by the specified
  floating point value.

.. option:: -R, --rusage=[self|children|thread]

  Return a JSON object representing an *rusage* structure
  returned by :linux:man2:`getrusage`.  If specified, the optional argument
  specifies the query target (default: self).

.. option:: -c, --clear

  Send a request message to clear statistics in the target module.

.. option:: -C, --clear-all

  Broadcast an event message to clear statistics in the target module
  on all ranks.

debug
-----

.. program:: flux module debug

Manipulate debug flags in module *name*. The interpretation of debug
flag bits is private to the module and its test drivers.

.. option:: -C, --clear

  Set all debug flags to 0.

.. option:: -S, --set=MASK

  Set debug flags to *MASK*.

.. option:: -s, --setbit=VAL

  Set one debug flag *VAL* to 1.

.. option:: -c, --clearbit=VAL

  Set one debug flag *VAL* to 0.

trace
-----

.. program:: flux module trace

Display message summaries for messages transmitted and received by the
named modules, or all modules if none are named.

.. note::

   Trace requests are accepted for modules before they are loaded.
   As a consequence, a trace request for a misspelled module name may be
   accepted, but produce no output.

.. option:: -f, --full

   Include JSON payload in output, if any.  Payloads that are not JSON are
   not displayed.

.. option:: -T, --topic=GLOB

   Filter output by topic string.

.. option:: -t, --type=TYPE,...

   Filter output by message type, a comma-separated list.  Valid types are
   ``request``, ``response``, ``event``, or ``control``.

.. option:: -L, --color=WHEN

   Colorize output when supported; WHEN can be ``always`` (default if omitted),
   ``never``, or ``auto`` (default).

.. option:: -H, --human

   Display human-readable output. See also :option:`--color` and
   :option:`--delta`.

.. option:: -d, --delta

   With :option:`--human`, display the time delta between messages instead
   of a relative offset since the last absolute timestamp.


DEBUG OPTIONS
=============

.. program:: flux module debug

.. option:: -c, --clear

   Set debug flags to zero.

.. option:: -S, --set=MASK

   Set debug flags to MASK.
   The value may be prefixed with 0x to indicate hexadecimal or 0
   to indicate octal, otherwise the value is interpreted as decimal.

.. option:: -c, --clearbit=MASK

   Clear the debug bits specified in MASK without disturbing other bits.
   The value is interpreted as above.

.. option:: -s, --setbit=MASK

   Set the debug bits specified in MASK without disturbing other bits.
   The value is interpreted as above.


LIST OUTPUT
===========

.. program:: flux module list

The *list* command displays one line for each unique (as determined by
SHA1 hash) loaded module.

**Module**
   The value of the **mod_name** symbol for this module.

**Idle**
   Idle times are defined as the number of seconds since the module last sent
   a request or response message.

**State**
   The state of the module is shown as a single character: *I* initializing,
   *R* running, *F* finalizing, *E* exited.  A module automatically enters
   running state when it calls :man3:`flux_reactor_run`.  It can transition
   earlier by calling `flux_module_set_running()`.

**Service**
   If the module has registered additional services, the service names are
   displayed in a comma-separated list.

**Path**
   The full path to the broker module shared object file (only shown with
   the **-l, --long** option).


MODULE SYMBOLS
==============

All Flux modules define the following global symbols:

**const char \*mod_name;**
   A null-terminated string defining the module name.

**int mod_main (void \*context, int argc, char \**argv);**
   An entry function.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_5`


SEE ALSO
========

:linux:man3:`syslog`

Commit message:

flux-module(1): document --exec option
Problem: the flux module (re)load --exec option is undocumented.

Update man page.

doc/man1/flux-module.rst, after:

==============
flux-module(1)
==============


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **module** **load** [*--name*] [*--exec*] *module* [*args...*]
| **flux** **module** **reload** [*--name*] [*--exec*] [*--force*] *module* [*args...*]
| **flux** **module** **remove** [*--force*] *name*
| **flux** **module** **list** [*-l*]
| **flux** **module** **stats** [*-R*] [*--clear*] *name*
| **flux** **module** **debug** [*--setbit=VAL*] [*--clearbit=VAL*] [*--set=MASK*] [*--clear=MASK*] *name*
| **flux** **module** **trace** [-f] [*-t TYPE,...*] [-T *topic-glob*] [*name...*]



DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux module

:program:`flux module` manages dynamically loadable :man1:`flux-broker` modules.


COMMANDS
========

load
----

.. program:: flux module load

Load *module*, which may be either the path to a shared object file, including
the ``.so`` suffix, or the basename of a shared object file on the
:envvar:`FLUX_MODULE_PATH`, without the suffix.

When :program:`flux module load` completes successfully, the new module has
entered the running state (see LIST OUTPUT below).

.. option:: -n, --name=NAME

  Override the default module name.  A single shared object file may be
  loaded multiple times under different names.

.. option:: --exec

  Load the module in a separate process, e.g. for isolation or debugging.

reload
------

.. program:: flux module reload

Reload module *name*. This is equivalent to running
:program:`flux module remove` followed by :program:`flux module load`.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Suppress failure if *module* is not loaded and proceed with loading.

.. option:: -n, --name=NAME

  Override the default module name.

.. option:: --exec

  Load the module in a separate process, e.g. for isolation or debugging.

remove
------

.. program:: flux module reload

Remove module *name*.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Suppress failure if module *name* is not loaded.

.. option:: --cancel

  Use :linux:man3:`pthread_cancel` to remove an unresponsive module.
  This may be useful if the module is not able to respond to the module
  shutdown request because it has not returned control to its reactor loop.
  However, broker module threads are created with *deferred* cancellability,
  so this is only effective if the module thread calls one of the functions
  listed as a cancellation point in :linux:man7:`pthreads`.

list
----

.. program:: flux module list

List the loaded modules.

.. option:: -l, --long

  Include the full DSO path for each module.

stats
-----

.. program:: flux module stats

Request statistics from module *name*. A JSON object containing a set of
counters for each type of Flux message is returned by default, however
the object may be customized on a module basis.

.. option:: -p, --parse=OBJNAME

  *OBJNAME* is a period delimited list of field names that should be walked
  to obtain a specific value or object in the returned JSON.

.. option:: -t, --type=int|double

  Force the returned value to be converted to int or double.

.. option:: -s, --scale=N

  Multiply the returned (int or double) value by the specified
  floating point value.

.. option:: -R, --rusage=[self|children|thread]

  Return a JSON object representing an *rusage* structure
  returned by :linux:man2:`getrusage`.  If specified, the optional argument
  specifies the query target (default: self).

.. option:: -c, --clear

  Send a request message to clear statistics in the target module.

.. option:: -C, --clear-all

  Broadcast an event message to clear statistics in the target module
  on all ranks.

debug
-----

.. program:: flux module debug

Manipulate debug flags in module *name*. The interpretation of debug
flag bits is private to the module and its test drivers.

.. option:: -C, --clear

  Set all debug flags to 0.

.. option:: -S, --set=MASK

  Set debug flags to *MASK*.

.. option:: -s, --setbit=VAL

  Set one debug flag *VAL* to 1.

.. option:: -c, --clearbit=VAL

  Set one debug flag *VAL* to 0.

trace
-----

.. program:: flux module trace

Display message summaries for messages transmitted and received by the
named modules, or all modules if none are named.

.. note::

   Trace requests are accepted for modules before they are loaded.
   As a consequence, a trace request for a misspelled module name may be
   accepted, but produce no output.

.. option:: -f, --full

   Include JSON payload in output, if any.  Payloads that are not JSON are
   not displayed.

.. option:: -T, --topic=GLOB

   Filter output by topic string.

.. option:: -t, --type=TYPE,...

   Filter output by message type, a comma-separated list.  Valid types are
   ``request``, ``response``, ``event``, or ``control``.

.. option:: -L, --color=WHEN

   Colorize output when supported; WHEN can be ``always`` (default if omitted),
   ``never``, or ``auto`` (default).

.. option:: -H, --human

   Display human-readable output. See also :option:`--color` and
   :option:`--delta`.

.. option:: -d, --delta

   With :option:`--human`, display the time delta between messages instead
   of a relative offset since the last absolute timestamp.


DEBUG OPTIONS
=============

.. program:: flux module debug

.. option:: -c, --clear

   Set debug flags to zero.

.. option:: -S, --set=MASK

   Set debug flags to MASK.
   The value may be prefixed with 0x to indicate hexadecimal or 0
   to indicate octal, otherwise the value is interpreted as decimal.

.. option:: -c, --clearbit=MASK

   Clear the debug bits specified in MASK without disturbing other bits.
   The value is interpreted as above.

.. option:: -s, --setbit=MASK

   Set the debug bits specified in MASK without disturbing other bits.
   The value is interpreted as above.


LIST OUTPUT
===========

.. program:: flux module list

The *list* command displays one line for each unique (as determined by
SHA1 hash) loaded module.

**Module**
   The value of the **mod_name** symbol for this module.

**Idle**
   Idle times are defined as the number of seconds since the module last sent
   a request or response message.

**State**
   The state of the module is shown as a single character: *I* initializing,
   *R* running, *F* finalizing, *E* exited.  A module automatically enters
   running state when it calls :man3:`flux_reactor_run`.  It can transition
   earlier by calling `flux_module_set_running()`.

**Service**
   If the module has registered additional services, the service names are
   displayed in a comma-separated list.

**Path**
   The full path to the broker module shared object file (only shown with
   the **-l, --long** option).


MODULE SYMBOLS
==============

All Flux modules define the following global symbols:

**const char \*mod_name;**
   A null-terminated string defining the module name.

**int mod_main (void \*context, int argc, char \**argv);**
   An entry function.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_5`


SEE ALSO
========

:linux:man3:`syslog`
