doc/man1/flux-start.rst, before:

.. flux-help-include: true

=============
flux-start(1)
=============


SYNOPSIS
========

[**launcher**] **flux** **start** [*OPTIONS*] [initial-program [args...]]

**flux** **start** *--test-size=N* [*OPTIONS*] [initial-program [args...]]

DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux start

:program:`flux start` assists with launching a new Flux instance, which
consists of one or more :man1:`flux-broker` processes functioning as a
distributed system.  It is primarily useful in environments that don't run
Flux natively, or when a standalone Flux instance is required for test,
development, or post-mortem debugging of another Flux instance.

When already running under Flux, single-user Flux instances can be more
conveniently started with :man1:`flux-batch` and :man1:`flux-alloc`.
The `Flux Administration Guide
<https://flux-framework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/admin-guide.html>`_
covers setting up a multi-user Flux "system instance", where Flux natively
manages a cluster's resources and those commands work ab initio for its users.

:program:`flux start` operates in two modes.  In `NORMAL MODE`_, it does not
launch broker processes; it *becomes* a single broker which joins an externally
bootstrapped parallel program.  In `TEST MODE`_, it starts one or more brokers
locally, provides their bootstrap environment, and then cleans up when the
instance terminates.

NORMAL MODE
===========

Normal mode is used when an external launcher like Slurm or Hydra starts
the broker processes and provides the bootstrap environment.  It is selected
when the :option:`--test-size` option is *not* specified.

In normal mode, :program:`flux start` replaces itself with a broker process
by calling :linux:man2:`execvp`.  The brokers bootstrap as a parallel program
and establish overlay network connections.  The usual bootstrap method is
some variant of the Process Management Interface (PMI) provided by the
launcher.

For example, Hydra provides a simple PMI server.  The following command
starts brokers on the hosts listed in a file called ``hosts``.  The
instance's initial program prints a URI that can be used with
:man1:`flux-proxy` and then sleeps forever::

  mpiexec.hydra -f hosts -launcher ssh \
    flux start "flux uri --remote \$FLUX_URI; sleep inf"

Slurm has a PMI-2 server plugin with backwards compatibility to the simple
PMI-1 wire protocol that Flux prefers.  The following command starts a two
node Flux instance in a Slurm allocation, with an interactive shell as the
initial program (the default if none is specified)::

  srun -N2 --pty --mpi=pmi2 flux start

When Flux is started by a launcher that is not Flux, resources are probed
using `HWLOC <https://www.open-mpi.org/projects/hwloc/>`_.  If all goes well,
when Slurm launches Flux :option:`flux resource info` in Flux should show all
the nodes, cores, and GPUs that Slurm allocated to the job.

TEST MODE
=========

Test mode, selected by specifying the :option:`--test-size` option, launches
a single node Flux instance that is independent of any configured resource
management on the node.  In test mode, :program:`flux start` provides the
bootstrap environment and launches the broker process(es).  It remains running
as long as the Flux instance is running.  It covers the following use cases:

- Start an interactive Flux instance on one node such as a developer system
  ::

    flux start --test-size=1

  Jobs can be submitted from the interactive shell started as the initial
  program, similar to the experience of running on a one node cluster.

- Mock a multi-node (multi-broker) Flux instance on one node
  ::

    flux start --test-size=64

  When the test size is greater than one, the actual resource inventory is
  multiplied by the test size, since each broker thinks it
  is running on a different node and re-discovers the same resources.

- Start a Flux instance to run a continuous integration test.  A test
  that runs jobs in Flux can be structured as::

    flux start --test-size=1 test.sh

  where ``test.sh`` (the initial program) runs work under Flux.  The exit
  status of :program:`flux start` reflects the exit status of ``test.sh``.
  This is how many of Flux's own tests work.

- Start a Flux instance to access job data from an inactive batch job that
  was configured to leave a dump file::

   flux start --test-size=1 --recovery=dump.tar

- Start a Flux instance to repair the on-disk state of a crashed system
  instance (experts only)::

   sudo -u flux flux start --test-size=1 --recovery

- Run the broker under :linux:man1:`gdb` from the source tree::

   ${top_builddir}/src/cmd/flux start --test-size=1 \
      --wrap=libtool,e,gdb


OPTIONS
=======
.. option:: -S, --setattr=ATTR=VAL

   Set broker attribute *ATTR* to *VAL*. This is equivalent to
   :option:`-o,-SATTR=VAL`.

.. option:: -c, --config-path=PATH

   Set the *PATH* for broker configuration. See :man1:`flux-broker` for
   option details. This is equivalent to :option:`-o,-cPATH`.

.. option:: -o, --broker-opts=OPTIONS

   Add options to the message broker daemon, separated by commas.

.. option:: -v, --verbose=[LEVEL]

   This option may be specified multiple times, or with a value, to
   set a verbosity level (1: display commands before executing them,
   2: trace PMI server requests in `TEST MODE`_ only).

.. option:: -X, --noexec

   Don't execute anything. This option is most useful with -v.

.. option:: --rundir=DIR

   (only with :option:`--test-size`) Set the directory that will be
   used as the rundir directory for the instance. If the directory
   does not exist then it will be created during instance startup.
   If a DIR is not set with this option, a unique temporary directory
   will be created. Unless DIR was pre-existing, it will be removed
   when the instance is destroyed.

.. option:: --wrap=ARGS

   Wrap broker execution in a comma-separated list of arguments. This is
   useful for running flux-broker directly under debuggers or valgrind.

.. option:: -s, --test-size=N

   Launch an instance of size *N* on the local host.

.. option:: --test-hosts=HOSTLIST

   Set :envvar:`FLUX_FAKE_HOSTNAME` in the environment of each broker so that
   the broker can bootstrap from a config file instead of PMI.  HOSTLIST is
   assumed to be in rank order.  The broker will use the fake hostname to
   find its entry in the configured bootstrap host array.

.. option:: --test-exit-timeout=FSD

   After a broker exits, kill the other brokers after a timeout (default 20s).

.. option:: --test-exit-mode=MODE

   Set the mode for the exit timeout.  If set to ``leader``, the exit timeout
   is only triggered upon exit of the leader broker, and the
   :program:`flux start` exit code is that of the leader broker.  If set to
   ``any``, the exit timeout is triggered upon exit of any broker, and the
   :program:`flux start` exit code is the highest exit code of all brokers.
   Default: ``any``.

.. option:: --test-start-mode=MODE

   Set the start mode.  If set to ``all``, all brokers are started immediately.
   If set to ``leader``, only the leader is started.  Hint: in ``leader`` mode,
   use :option:`--setattr=broker.quorum=1` to let the initial program start
   before the other brokers are online.  Default: ``all``.

.. option:: --test-rundir=PATH

   Set the directory to be used as the broker rundir instead of creating a
   temporary one.  The directory must exist, and is not cleaned up unless
   :option:`--test-rundir-cleanup` is also specified.

.. option:: --test-rundir-cleanup

   Recursively remove the directory specified with :option:`--test-rundir` upon
   completion of :program:`flux start`.

.. option:: --test-pmi-clique=MODE

   Set the pmi clique mode, which determines how ``PMI_process_mapping`` is set
   in the PMI server used to bootstrap the brokers.  If ``none``, the mapping
   is not created.  If ``single``, all brokers are placed in one clique. If
   ``per-broker``, each broker is placed in its own clique.
   Default: ``single``.

.. option:: -r, --recovery=[TARGET]

   Start the rank 0 broker of an instance in recovery mode.  If *TARGET*
   is a directory, treat it as a *statedir* from a previous instance.
   If *TARGET* is a file, treat it as an archive file from :man1:`flux-dump`.
   If *TARGET* is unspecified, assume the system instance is to be recovered.
   In recovery mode, any rc1 errors are ignored, broker peers are not allowed
   to connect, and resources are offline.

.. option:: --sysconfig

   Run the broker with :option:`--config-path` set to the default system
   instance configuration directory.  This option is unnecessary if
   :option:`--recovery` is specified without its optional argument.  It may
   be required if recovering a dump from a system instance.


TROUBLESHOOTING
===============

`NORMAL MODE`_ requires Flux, the launcher, and the network to cooperate.
If :program:`flux start` appears to hang, the following tips may be helpful:

#. Reduce the size of the Flux instance to at most two nodes.  This reduces the
   volume of log data to look at and may be easier to allocate on a busy
   system.  Rule out the simple problems that can be reproduced with a small
   allocation first.

#. Use an initial program that prints something and exits rather than the
   default interactive shell, in case there are problems with the launcher's
   pty setup.  Something like::

     [launcher] flux start [options] echo hello world

#. Ensure that standard output and error are being captured and add launcher
   options to add rank prefixes to the output.

   .. list-table::

     * - Slurm
       - :option:`--label`

     * - Hydra
       - :option:`-prepend-rank`

     * - :man1:`flux-run`
       - :option:`--label-io`

#. Tell the broker to print its rank, size, and network endpoint by adding
   the :option:`flux start -o,-v` option.  If this doesn't happen, most likely
   the PMI bootstrap is getting stuck.

#. Trace Flux's PMI client on stderr by setting the FLUX_PMI_DEBUG environment
   variable::

     FLUX_PMI_DEBUG=1 [launcher] flux start ...

#. Consider altering :envvar:`FLUX_PMI_CLIENT_METHODS` to better match the
   launcher's PMI offerings.  See :man7:`flux-environment`.

#. A launcher's PMI capabilities can also be explored in a simplified way
   using the :man1:`flux-pmi` client.

#. If PMI is successful but the initial program fails to run, the brokers
   may not be able to reach each other over the network.  After one minute,
   the rank 0 broker should log a "quorum delayed" message if this is true.

#. Examine the network endpoints in the output above.  Flux preferentially
   binds to the IPv4 network address associated with the default route and
   a random port.  The address choice can be modified by setting the
   :envvar:`FLUX_IPADDR_HOSTNAME` and/or :envvar:`FLUX_IPADDR_V6`.
   See :man7:`flux-environment`.

#. More logging can be enabled by adding the
   :option:`flux start -Slog-stderr-level=7` option, which instructs the
   broker to forward its internal log buffer to stderr.  See
   :man7:`flux-broker-attributes`.

Another common failure mode is getting a single node instance when multiple
nodes were expected.  This can occur if no viable PMI server was found and the
brokers fell back to singleton operation.  It may be helpful to enable PMI
tracing, check into launcher PMI options, and possibly adjust the order of
options that Flux tries using :envvar:`FLUX_PMI_CLIENT_METHODS` as described
above.

Finally, if Flux starts but GPUs are missing from :option:`flux resource info`
output, verify that the version of HWLOC that Flux is using was built with
the appropriate GPU plugins.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-broker`

Commit message:

flux-start(1): document taskmap capability
Problem: flux-start --test-pmi-clique=TASKMAP is undocumented.

Note that capability in the man page.

doc/man1/flux-start.rst, after:

.. flux-help-include: true

=============
flux-start(1)
=============


SYNOPSIS
========

[**launcher**] **flux** **start** [*OPTIONS*] [initial-program [args...]]

**flux** **start** *--test-size=N* [*OPTIONS*] [initial-program [args...]]

DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux start

:program:`flux start` assists with launching a new Flux instance, which
consists of one or more :man1:`flux-broker` processes functioning as a
distributed system.  It is primarily useful in environments that don't run
Flux natively, or when a standalone Flux instance is required for test,
development, or post-mortem debugging of another Flux instance.

When already running under Flux, single-user Flux instances can be more
conveniently started with :man1:`flux-batch` and :man1:`flux-alloc`.
The `Flux Administration Guide
<https://flux-framework.readthedocs.io/en/latest/guides/admin-guide.html>`_
covers setting up a multi-user Flux "system instance", where Flux natively
manages a cluster's resources and those commands work ab initio for its users.

:program:`flux start` operates in two modes.  In `NORMAL MODE`_, it does not
launch broker processes; it *becomes* a single broker which joins an externally
bootstrapped parallel program.  In `TEST MODE`_, it starts one or more brokers
locally, provides their bootstrap environment, and then cleans up when the
instance terminates.

NORMAL MODE
===========

Normal mode is used when an external launcher like Slurm or Hydra starts
the broker processes and provides the bootstrap environment.  It is selected
when the :option:`--test-size` option is *not* specified.

In normal mode, :program:`flux start` replaces itself with a broker process
by calling :linux:man2:`execvp`.  The brokers bootstrap as a parallel program
and establish overlay network connections.  The usual bootstrap method is
some variant of the Process Management Interface (PMI) provided by the
launcher.

For example, Hydra provides a simple PMI server.  The following command
starts brokers on the hosts listed in a file called ``hosts``.  The
instance's initial program prints a URI that can be used with
:man1:`flux-proxy` and then sleeps forever::

  mpiexec.hydra -f hosts -launcher ssh \
    flux start "flux uri --remote \$FLUX_URI; sleep inf"

Slurm has a PMI-2 server plugin with backwards compatibility to the simple
PMI-1 wire protocol that Flux prefers.  The following command starts a two
node Flux instance in a Slurm allocation, with an interactive shell as the
initial program (the default if none is specified)::

  srun -N2 --pty --mpi=pmi2 flux start

When Flux is started by a launcher that is not Flux, resources are probed
using `HWLOC <https://www.open-mpi.org/projects/hwloc/>`_.  If all goes well,
when Slurm launches Flux :option:`flux resource info` in Flux should show all
the nodes, cores, and GPUs that Slurm allocated to the job.

TEST MODE
=========

Test mode, selected by specifying the :option:`--test-size` option, launches
a single node Flux instance that is independent of any configured resource
management on the node.  In test mode, :program:`flux start` provides the
bootstrap environment and launches the broker process(es).  It remains running
as long as the Flux instance is running.  It covers the following use cases:

- Start an interactive Flux instance on one node such as a developer system
  ::

    flux start --test-size=1

  Jobs can be submitted from the interactive shell started as the initial
  program, similar to the experience of running on a one node cluster.

- Mock a multi-node (multi-broker) Flux instance on one node
  ::

    flux start --test-size=64

  When the test size is greater than one, the actual resource inventory is
  multiplied by the test size, since each broker thinks it
  is running on a different node and re-discovers the same resources.

- Start a Flux instance to run a continuous integration test.  A test
  that runs jobs in Flux can be structured as::

    flux start --test-size=1 test.sh

  where ``test.sh`` (the initial program) runs work under Flux.  The exit
  status of :program:`flux start` reflects the exit status of ``test.sh``.
  This is how many of Flux's own tests work.

- Start a Flux instance to access job data from an inactive batch job that
  was configured to leave a dump file::

   flux start --test-size=1 --recovery=dump.tar

- Start a Flux instance to repair the on-disk state of a crashed system
  instance (experts only)::

   sudo -u flux flux start --test-size=1 --recovery

- Run the broker under :linux:man1:`gdb` from the source tree::

   ${top_builddir}/src/cmd/flux start --test-size=1 \
      --wrap=libtool,e,gdb


OPTIONS
=======
.. option:: -S, --setattr=ATTR=VAL

   Set broker attribute *ATTR* to *VAL*. This is equivalent to
   :option:`-o,-SATTR=VAL`.

.. option:: -c, --config-path=PATH

   Set the *PATH* for broker configuration. See :man1:`flux-broker` for
   option details. This is equivalent to :option:`-o,-cPATH`.

.. option:: -o, --broker-opts=OPTIONS

   Add options to the message broker daemon, separated by commas.

.. option:: -v, --verbose=[LEVEL]

   This option may be specified multiple times, or with a value, to
   set a verbosity level (1: display commands before executing them,
   2: trace PMI server requests in `TEST MODE`_ only).

.. option:: -X, --noexec

   Don't execute anything. This option is most useful with -v.

.. option:: --rundir=DIR

   (only with :option:`--test-size`) Set the directory that will be
   used as the rundir directory for the instance. If the directory
   does not exist then it will be created during instance startup.
   If a DIR is not set with this option, a unique temporary directory
   will be created. Unless DIR was pre-existing, it will be removed
   when the instance is destroyed.

.. option:: --wrap=ARGS

   Wrap broker execution in a comma-separated list of arguments. This is
   useful for running flux-broker directly under debuggers or valgrind.

.. option:: -s, --test-size=N

   Launch an instance of size *N* on the local host.

.. option:: --test-hosts=HOSTLIST

   Set :envvar:`FLUX_FAKE_HOSTNAME` in the environment of each broker so that
   the broker can bootstrap from a config file instead of PMI.  HOSTLIST is
   assumed to be in rank order.  The broker will use the fake hostname to
   find its entry in the configured bootstrap host array.

.. option:: --test-exit-timeout=FSD

   After a broker exits, kill the other brokers after a timeout (default 20s).

.. option:: --test-exit-mode=MODE

   Set the mode for the exit timeout.  If set to ``leader``, the exit timeout
   is only triggered upon exit of the leader broker, and the
   :program:`flux start` exit code is that of the leader broker.  If set to
   ``any``, the exit timeout is triggered upon exit of any broker, and the
   :program:`flux start` exit code is the highest exit code of all brokers.
   Default: ``any``.

.. option:: --test-start-mode=MODE

   Set the start mode.  If set to ``all``, all brokers are started immediately.
   If set to ``leader``, only the leader is started.  Hint: in ``leader`` mode,
   use :option:`--setattr=broker.quorum=1` to let the initial program start
   before the other brokers are online.  Default: ``all``.

.. option:: --test-rundir=PATH

   Set the directory to be used as the broker rundir instead of creating a
   temporary one.  The directory must exist, and is not cleaned up unless
   :option:`--test-rundir-cleanup` is also specified.

.. option:: --test-rundir-cleanup

   Recursively remove the directory specified with :option:`--test-rundir` upon
   completion of :program:`flux start`.

.. option:: --test-pmi-clique=MODE

   Set the pmi clique mode, which determines how ``PMI_process_mapping`` is set
   in the PMI server used to bootstrap the brokers.  If ``none``, the mapping
   is not created.  If ``single``, all brokers are placed in one clique. If
   ``per-broker``, each broker is placed in its own clique.  Otherwise the
   option argument is interpreted as an RFC 34 taskmap.  Default: ``single``.

.. option:: -r, --recovery=[TARGET]

   Start the rank 0 broker of an instance in recovery mode.  If *TARGET*
   is a directory, treat it as a *statedir* from a previous instance.
   If *TARGET* is a file, treat it as an archive file from :man1:`flux-dump`.
   If *TARGET* is unspecified, assume the system instance is to be recovered.
   In recovery mode, any rc1 errors are ignored, broker peers are not allowed
   to connect, and resources are offline.

.. option:: --sysconfig

   Run the broker with :option:`--config-path` set to the default system
   instance configuration directory.  This option is unnecessary if
   :option:`--recovery` is specified without its optional argument.  It may
   be required if recovering a dump from a system instance.


TROUBLESHOOTING
===============

`NORMAL MODE`_ requires Flux, the launcher, and the network to cooperate.
If :program:`flux start` appears to hang, the following tips may be helpful:

#. Reduce the size of the Flux instance to at most two nodes.  This reduces the
   volume of log data to look at and may be easier to allocate on a busy
   system.  Rule out the simple problems that can be reproduced with a small
   allocation first.

#. Use an initial program that prints something and exits rather than the
   default interactive shell, in case there are problems with the launcher's
   pty setup.  Something like::

     [launcher] flux start [options] echo hello world

#. Ensure that standard output and error are being captured and add launcher
   options to add rank prefixes to the output.

   .. list-table::

     * - Slurm
       - :option:`--label`

     * - Hydra
       - :option:`-prepend-rank`

     * - :man1:`flux-run`
       - :option:`--label-io`

#. Tell the broker to print its rank, size, and network endpoint by adding
   the :option:`flux start -o,-v` option.  If this doesn't happen, most likely
   the PMI bootstrap is getting stuck.

#. Trace Flux's PMI client on stderr by setting the FLUX_PMI_DEBUG environment
   variable::

     FLUX_PMI_DEBUG=1 [launcher] flux start ...

#. Consider altering :envvar:`FLUX_PMI_CLIENT_METHODS` to better match the
   launcher's PMI offerings.  See :man7:`flux-environment`.

#. A launcher's PMI capabilities can also be explored in a simplified way
   using the :man1:`flux-pmi` client.

#. If PMI is successful but the initial program fails to run, the brokers
   may not be able to reach each other over the network.  After one minute,
   the rank 0 broker should log a "quorum delayed" message if this is true.

#. Examine the network endpoints in the output above.  Flux preferentially
   binds to the IPv4 network address associated with the default route and
   a random port.  The address choice can be modified by setting the
   :envvar:`FLUX_IPADDR_HOSTNAME` and/or :envvar:`FLUX_IPADDR_V6`.
   See :man7:`flux-environment`.

#. More logging can be enabled by adding the
   :option:`flux start -Slog-stderr-level=7` option, which instructs the
   broker to forward its internal log buffer to stderr.  See
   :man7:`flux-broker-attributes`.

Another common failure mode is getting a single node instance when multiple
nodes were expected.  This can occur if no viable PMI server was found and the
brokers fell back to singleton operation.  It may be helpful to enable PMI
tracing, check into launcher PMI options, and possibly adjust the order of
options that Flux tries using :envvar:`FLUX_PMI_CLIENT_METHODS` as described
above.

Finally, if Flux starts but GPUs are missing from :option:`flux resource info`
output, verify that the version of HWLOC that Flux is using was built with
the appropriate GPU plugins.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


SEE ALSO
========

:man1:`flux-broker`
