doc/man1/flux-start.adoc, before:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-START(1)
=============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-start - bootstrap a local Flux instance


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *start* ['OPTIONS'] [initial-program [args...]]


DESCRIPTION
-----------
flux-start(1) launches a new Flux instance.  By default, flux-start
execs a single flux-broker(1) directly.  If a PMI environment is
available, flux-broker will use it to fetch job information and
bootstrap a session of geometry determined from PMI.  If PMI is
unavailable, flux-broker will run as a standalone, single-rank job.

If a size is specified via '--size', an instance of that size is to be
started on the local host with flux-start as the parent.

A failure of the initial program (such as non-zero exit code)
causes flux-start to exit with a non-zero exit code.

Note: in order to launch a Flux instance, you must have generated
long-term CURVE keys using flux-keygen(1).

OPTIONS
-------
*-s, --size*='N'::
Launch an instance of size 'N' on the local host.

*-o, --broker-opts*='option_string'::
Add options to the message broker daemon, separated by commas.

*-v, --verbose*::
Display commands before executing them.

*-X, --noexec*::
Don't execute anything.  This option is most useful with -v.

*--caliper-profile*='PROFILE'::
Run brokers with Caliper profiling enabled, using a Caliper
configuration profile named 'PROFILE'. Requires a version of Flux
built with --enable-caliper. Unless CALI_LOG_VERBOSITY is already
set in the environment, it will default to 0 for all brokers.

EXAMPLES
--------

Launch an 8-way local Flux instance with an interactive shell as the
initial program and all logs output to stderr:

  flux start -s8 -o,--setattr=log-stderr-level=7

Launch an 8-way Flux instance within a slurm job, with an interactive
shell as the initial program:

  srun --pty -N8 flux start

Launch an 8-way Flux instance under Flux, with /bin/true as
the initial program:

  flux wreckrun -N8 flux start /bin/true


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-broker(1) flux-keygen(1)

Commit message:

flux-start: Add --bootstrap method.
Add the --bootstrap option to allow specifying a specific instance
bootstrap method.  The initial two methods are "selfpmi" and "pmi",
which are just explicit names for existing methods.  selfpmi is the
new name for the method where flux-start itself starts a PMI server,
and then launches brokers use PMI to bootstrap using said server.
With "pmi", flux-start just assumes a PMI environment is available
and execs a single broker directly.

Documentation is updated and tests are added for this new interface.

Fixes #952

doc/man1/flux-start.adoc, after:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-START(1)
=============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-start - bootstrap a local Flux instance


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *start* ['OPTIONS'] [initial-program [args...]]


DESCRIPTION
-----------
flux-start(1) launches a new Flux instance.  By default, flux-start
execs a single flux-broker(1) directly.  By default it will attempt to use
PMI to fetch job information and bootstrap a flux instance.

If a size is specified via '--size', an instance of that size is to be
started on the local host with flux-start as the parent. (Mostly used for testing
purposes.)

A failure of the initial program (such as non-zero exit code)
causes flux-start to exit with a non-zero exit code.

Note: in order to launch a Flux instance, you must have generated
long-term CURVE keys using flux-keygen(1).

OPTIONS
-------
*-s, --size*='N'::
Launch an instance of size 'N' on the local host.  Only works with
'--bootstrap=selfpmi'.  Automatically sets '--bootstrap=selfpmi' and prints
a warning to stderr if no '--bootstrap' option is specified.

*-b, --bootstrap*='METHOD'::
Select the flux bootstrap method.  Possible values of 'METHOD' are:
  * pmi - Use PMI (Process Management Interface)
  * selfpmi - The flux-start process will activate its own internal PMI server,
    and then it will launch flux-brokers that will bootstrap using said PMI server.

*-o, --broker-opts*='option_string'::
Add options to the message broker daemon, separated by commas.

*-v, --verbose*::
Display commands before executing them.

*-X, --noexec*::
Don't execute anything.  This option is most useful with -v.

*--caliper-profile*='PROFILE'::
Run brokers with Caliper profiling enabled, using a Caliper
configuration profile named 'PROFILE'. Requires a version of Flux
built with --enable-caliper. Unless CALI_LOG_VERBOSITY is already
set in the environment, it will default to 0 for all brokers.

EXAMPLES
--------

Launch an 8-way local Flux instance with an interactive shell as the
initial program and all logs output to stderr:

  flux start -s8 -o,--setattr=log-stderr-level=7

Launch an 8-way Flux instance within a slurm job, with an interactive
shell as the initial program:

  srun --pty -N8 flux start

Launch an 8-way Flux instance under Flux, with /bin/true as
the initial program:

  flux wreckrun -N8 flux start /bin/true


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-broker(1) flux-keygen(1)
