doc/man1/flux-wreckrun.adoc, before:

// flux-help-include: yes
FLUX-WRECKRUN(1)
================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-wreckrun - Flux utility for remote execution


SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'flux wreckrun' [-n <ntasks>] [-N <nnodes>] [-t <tasks-per-node>]
                [-l|--label-io] [-d|--detach] [-o|--options='OPTIONS']
                [-O|--output='FILENAME'] [-E|--error='FILENAME']
                [-i|--input='HOW'] ['COMMANDS'...]


DESCRIPTION
-----------

'flux wreckrun' is the front-end command for launching tasks within
a Flux comms session using the WRECK remote execution prototype.

WRECK (Worthless Remote Execution using CMB KVS) is a prototype
implementation of remote execution for Flux which demonstrates
the usage of the Flux key-value store as the vehicle for transmitting
and storing information about lightweight jobs (LWJs). The basic
mode of operation is described in xref:wreck-operation[].

OPTIONS
-------

--ntasks='ntasks'::
-n 'ntasks'::
	Request to run a total of 'ntasks' tasks. If '--ntasks' is used alone,
	i.e. without '--nnodes', then 'flux wreckrun' will attempt to
	distribute the 'ntasks' tasks across all nodes of the Flux comms
	session.

--nnodes='nnodes'::
-N 'nnodes'::
	Request to run across 'nnodes' nodes in the current comms session.
	
--tasks-per-node='tpn'::
-t 'tpn'::
	Set the number of tasks to run per node to 'tpn'. The default is
	--tasks-per-node=1. This value is overridden by '--ntasks' if used.

--labelio::
-l::
	Prepend stdout and stderr output lines with the task id to which
	the output belongs.

--detach::
-d::
	Detach immediately after issuing a run request and print new jobid
	to stdout.

--wait-until='state'::
-w 'state'::
	Ignore all stdio, and instead just wait until the job reaches
        a state of 'state' (i.e. "starting", "running", or "complete") and
        exit immediately.

--output='FILENAME'::
-O 'FILENAME'::
	Duplicate stdout and stderr from tasks to a file or files. 'FILENAME'
	is optionally a mustache template which expands the keys 'id', 'cmd'
	and 'taskid'. (e.g. '--output=flux-{{id}}.out')

--error='FILENAME'::
-E 'FILENAME'::
	Send stderr to a different location than stdout.

--input='HOW'::
-i 'HOW'::
	Indicate how to deal with stdin for tasks. 'HOW' is a list of 'src:dst'
	pairs where 'src' is a source 'FILENAME' which may optionally be a
	mustache template as in `--output`, or the special term `stdin` to
	indicate the stdin from a front end program, and 'dst' is a list of
	taskids or `*` or `all` to indicate all tasks. The default is `stdin:*`.
	If only one of 'src' or 'dst' is specified, a heuristic is used to
	determine whether a list of tasks or an input file was meant. (e.g
	`--input=file.in` will use `file.in` as input for all tasks, and
	`--input=0` will send stdin to task 0 only.

--options='options,...'::
-o 'options,...'::
	Apply extended job options to the current execution. Examples of
	these options are described in the xref:extra-options[].

EXTRA OPTIONS
-------------
[[extra-options]]

Extra options can be supplied on the `flux wreckrun` command via the
'--options' command line option. Multiple options should be separated
via commas. Currently available options include:

'stdio-commit-on-open'::
	Commit to kvs on stdio open in each task. The default is to
	delay commit. Without this option, stdio files for jobs will
	not appear in KVS on all nodes until the next KVS commit.
	The default behavior avoids a kvs commit storm as stdout and
	stderr files are opened for every task.

'stdio-commit-on-close'::
	Commit to kvs for each stdio stream as it gets EOF. The default
	is to delay the commit. Without this option, stdio files for
	jobs will not appear to close until after the next natural
	KVS commit. The default behavior avoids a kvs commit storm
	as stdout and stderr files are closed from many tasks. This
	option may need to be enabled if you need to detect immediately
	when a stdout or stderr stream is closed from a task.

'stdio-delay-commit'::
	Disable commit to kvs for each line of output. The default
	behavior is to call kvs_commit() after each line of output
	from every task. If many tasks are writing multiple lines
	of output and it is not necessary to see lines of output
	as they are generated, it will speed up job execution to
	enable this option.

'commit-on-task-exit'::
	Commit to the kvs for each task exit event. The default behavior
	is to write the task exit status to the kvs as each task in
	a lightweight job exits, but delay kvs commit. This avoids
	a kvs commit storm when many tasks are exiting simultaneously.
	This option may need to be enabled if knowlege of exit status or
	fact that tasks have exited is required in real time.

'stop-children-in-exec'::
	Start tasks in a STOPPED state waiting for attach from a
	debugger. This option is provided for use with parallel
	debuggers such as TotalView.

OPERATION
----------
[[wreck-operation]]

Briefly, the method of operation for remote execution via WRECK
consists of the following steps:

. The front-end command ('wreckrun') allocates a new job directory
  entry in the kvs under the 'lwj' key. This operation is performed
  as a 'job.create' request, which results in a new directory in
  the kvs as 'lwj.<jobid>'. Initially, a job state is stored in
  'lwj.<jobid>.state' as 'reserved'.
. The front-end command now fills in requisite and optional job
  information under the 'lwj.<jobid>' hierarchy such as the
  command-line to run, how many tasks to run on each rank, the
  job environment, etc. 
. The front-end command then issues a 'wrexec.run' event, which
  is handled by the 'wrexec' module. The 'wrexec' module spawns
  a daemon to handle the request for the jobid in question. The
  'wrexecd' daemon pulls information for the job in question
  directly from the local kvs cache and spawns required tasks.
. Once the first task is started by rank 0, the job state is updated
  to 'starting'.
. After starting tasks, all 'wrexecd' daemons synchronize on a
  barrier, and the job state is updated to 'running'.
. As the tasks run, stdio is stored in the KVS and is (optionally)
  available immediately for 'flux wreckrun' to display on the
  user's console.
. As tasks exit, their exit status is recorded in the kvs.
. After all tasks have exited, 'wrexecd' daemons synchronize again
  and rank 0 updates the job state to 'completed'.

This simple scheme offers a scalable and semi-flexible method
for launching tasks within a Flux comms session. In conjunction
with the Flux PMI library, even MPI applications may be launched
at scale via 'flux wreckrun'. See xref:wreckrun-examples[] for
examples.


EXAMPLES
--------
[[wreckrun-examples]]

Once a Flux comms session is running, ensure the required modules
for 'wreck' are loaded:

------------------------------
$ flux module list | egrep 'resource|job|wrexec'
resource-hwloc        44673 498403A idle 0
wrexec                42052 2CA4CAT idle 0
job                   28959 60947AA idle 0
$
------------------------------

To ensure wrexec is working properly, run hostname across
4 nodes of the Flux comms session:

------------------------------
$ flux wreckrun -l -N4 hostname
wreckrun: 0.000s: Sending LWJ request for 1 tasks (cmdline "hostname")
wreckrun: 0.007s: Registered jobid 1
wreckrun: Allocating 4 tasks across 4 available nodes..
wreckrun: tasks per node: node[0-3]: 1
wreckrun: 0.009s: Sending run event
wreckrun: 0.012s: State = reserved
wreckrun: 0.020s: State = starting
wreckrun: 0.082s: State = running
0: hype349
2: hype351
3: hype352
1: hype350
wreckrun: 0.140s: State = complete
wreckrun: All tasks completed successfully.
------------------------------

'flux wreckrun' uses the Flux kvs for most of its functionality,
and thus information about lightweight jobs (LWJs) that are
executed will be stored in the 'lwj.<jobid>' directory in the kvs.
To see what kind of information is stored there, use the
'flux kvs' utility:

------------------------------
$ flux kvs dir lwj.1
------------------------------

.Running an MPI application with 'flux wreckrun'

Launching an MPI application with 'flux wreckrun' requires that your
version of MPI supports PMI. In this example, MVAPICH2 is used:

------------------------------
$ mpicc -v 2>&1 | head -1
mpicc for MVAPICH2 version 1.7
$ mpicc -o mpi_hello mpi_hello.c
------------------------------

In order to run using the Flux PMI library, 'LD_LIBRARY_PATH' may need
to be adjusted at runtime. For example, to use Flux's libpmi.so 
from the build directory:

------------------------------
$ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${flux_builddir}/src/lib/libpmi/.libs${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}
------------------------------

where '${flux_builddir}' is the path to the root of the flux-core
build directory.

Now the MPI application should run via 'flux wreckrun':

------------------------------
$ flux wreckrun -N4 ./mpi_hello
wreckrun: 0.000s: Sending LWJ request for 1 tasks (cmdline "./mpi_hello")      
wreckrun: 0.007s: Registered jobid 5                                           
wreckrun: Allocating 4 tasks across 4 available nodes..                        
wreckrun: tasks per node: node[0-3]: 1                                         
wreckrun: 0.009s: Sending run event                                            
wreckrun: 0.011s: State = reserved                                             
wreckrun: 0.018s: State = starting                                             
wreckrun: 0.028s: State = running                                              
0: completed first barrier                                                     
0: completed MPI_Init in 0.039s.  There are 4 tasks                            
0: completed MPI_Finalize                                                      
wreckrun: 2.182s: State = complete                                             
wreckrun: All tasks completed successfully.                                    
------------------------------

The use of Flux PMI can be verified by checking the KVS 'pmi' directory
for the LWJ in question:

------------------------------
$ flux kvs dir pmi.5                                                         
pmi.5.hostname[2] = "-1463773063"                                              
pmi.5.hostname[0] = "-1463773575"                                              
pmi.5.hostname[1] = "-1463773319"                                              
pmi.5.hostname[3] = "-1463772807"                                              
pmi.5.uuid_2_5 = "dummy-entry"                                                 
pmi.5.uuid_0_5 = "8hiWSLCPRzqFYHNubktbCQ=="                                    
pmi.5.uuid_1_5 = "dummy-entry"                                                 
pmi.5.uuid_3_5 = "dummy-entry"                                                 
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_2 = "1901059"                                                
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_0 = "7209475"                                                
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_1 = "6816259"                                                
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_3 = "6750723"             
------------------------------


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-wreck(1)

Commit message:

doc/man1/flux-wreckrun.adoc: lwj hierarchy updates
Update manpage text to be aware of lwj hierarchy configuration.
Note use of 'flux wreck last-jobid -p' to determine full directory path.

doc/man1/flux-wreckrun.adoc, after:

// flux-help-include: yes
FLUX-WRECKRUN(1)
================
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-wreckrun - Flux utility for remote execution


SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'flux wreckrun' [-n <ntasks>] [-N <nnodes>] [-t <tasks-per-node>]
                [-l|--label-io] [-d|--detach] [-o|--options='OPTIONS']
                [-O|--output='FILENAME'] [-E|--error='FILENAME']
                [-i|--input='HOW'] ['COMMANDS'...]


DESCRIPTION
-----------

'flux wreckrun' is the front-end command for launching tasks within
a Flux comms session using the WRECK remote execution prototype.

WRECK (Worthless Remote Execution using CMB KVS) is a prototype
implementation of remote execution for Flux which demonstrates
the usage of the Flux key-value store as the vehicle for transmitting
and storing information about lightweight jobs (LWJs). The basic
mode of operation is described in xref:wreck-operation[].

OPTIONS
-------

--ntasks='ntasks'::
-n 'ntasks'::
	Request to run a total of 'ntasks' tasks. If '--ntasks' is used alone,
	i.e. without '--nnodes', then 'flux wreckrun' will attempt to
	distribute the 'ntasks' tasks across all nodes of the Flux comms
	session.

--nnodes='nnodes'::
-N 'nnodes'::
	Request to run across 'nnodes' nodes in the current comms session.
	
--tasks-per-node='tpn'::
-t 'tpn'::
	Set the number of tasks to run per node to 'tpn'. The default is
	--tasks-per-node=1. This value is overridden by '--ntasks' if used.

--labelio::
-l::
	Prepend stdout and stderr output lines with the task id to which
	the output belongs.

--detach::
-d::
	Detach immediately after issuing a run request and print new jobid
	to stdout.

--wait-until='state'::
-w 'state'::
	Ignore all stdio, and instead just wait until the job reaches
        a state of 'state' (i.e. "starting", "running", or "complete") and
        exit immediately.

--output='FILENAME'::
-O 'FILENAME'::
	Duplicate stdout and stderr from tasks to a file or files. 'FILENAME'
	is optionally a mustache template which expands the keys 'id', 'cmd'
	and 'taskid'. (e.g. '--output=flux-{{id}}.out')

--error='FILENAME'::
-E 'FILENAME'::
	Send stderr to a different location than stdout.

--input='HOW'::
-i 'HOW'::
	Indicate how to deal with stdin for tasks. 'HOW' is a list of 'src:dst'
	pairs where 'src' is a source 'FILENAME' which may optionally be a
	mustache template as in `--output`, or the special term `stdin` to
	indicate the stdin from a front end program, and 'dst' is a list of
	taskids or `*` or `all` to indicate all tasks. The default is `stdin:*`.
	If only one of 'src' or 'dst' is specified, a heuristic is used to
	determine whether a list of tasks or an input file was meant. (e.g
	`--input=file.in` will use `file.in` as input for all tasks, and
	`--input=0` will send stdin to task 0 only.

--options='options,...'::
-o 'options,...'::
	Apply extended job options to the current execution. Examples of
	these options are described in the xref:extra-options[].

EXTRA OPTIONS
-------------
[[extra-options]]

Extra options can be supplied on the `flux wreckrun` command via the
'--options' command line option. Multiple options should be separated
via commas. Currently available options include:

'stdio-commit-on-open'::
	Commit to kvs on stdio open in each task. The default is to
	delay commit. Without this option, stdio files for jobs will
	not appear in KVS on all nodes until the next KVS commit.
	The default behavior avoids a kvs commit storm as stdout and
	stderr files are opened for every task.

'stdio-commit-on-close'::
	Commit to kvs for each stdio stream as it gets EOF. The default
	is to delay the commit. Without this option, stdio files for
	jobs will not appear to close until after the next natural
	KVS commit. The default behavior avoids a kvs commit storm
	as stdout and stderr files are closed from many tasks. This
	option may need to be enabled if you need to detect immediately
	when a stdout or stderr stream is closed from a task.

'stdio-delay-commit'::
	Disable commit to kvs for each line of output. The default
	behavior is to call kvs_commit() after each line of output
	from every task. If many tasks are writing multiple lines
	of output and it is not necessary to see lines of output
	as they are generated, it will speed up job execution to
	enable this option.

'commit-on-task-exit'::
	Commit to the kvs for each task exit event. The default behavior
	is to write the task exit status to the kvs as each task in
	a lightweight job exits, but delay kvs commit. This avoids
	a kvs commit storm when many tasks are exiting simultaneously.
	This option may need to be enabled if knowlege of exit status or
	fact that tasks have exited is required in real time.

'stop-children-in-exec'::
	Start tasks in a STOPPED state waiting for attach from a
	debugger. This option is provided for use with parallel
	debuggers such as TotalView.

OPERATION
----------
[[wreck-operation]]

Briefly, the method of operation for remote execution via WRECK
consists of the following steps:

. The front-end command ('wreckrun') allocates a new job directory
  entry in the kvs under the 'lwj' key. This operation is performed as
  a 'job.create' request, which results in a new directory in the kvs,
  such as 'lwj.<jobid>'.  The full directory path is dependent on
  settings but can be determined via "flux wreck last-jobid -p".
  Initially, a job state is 'reserved' and stored in the 'state'
  directory, such as 'lwj.<jobid>.state'.
. The front-end command now fills in requisite and optional job
  information under the 'lwj' jobid directory such as the command-line
  to run, how many tasks to run on each rank, the job environment,
  etc.
. The front-end command then issues a 'wrexec.run' event, which
  is handled by the 'wrexec' module. The 'wrexec' module spawns
  a daemon to handle the request for the jobid in question. The
  'wrexecd' daemon pulls information for the job in question
  directly from the local kvs cache and spawns required tasks.
. Once the first task is started by rank 0, the job state is updated
  to 'starting'.
. After starting tasks, all 'wrexecd' daemons synchronize on a
  barrier, and the job state is updated to 'running'.
. As the tasks run, stdio is stored in the KVS and is (optionally)
  available immediately for 'flux wreckrun' to display on the
  user's console.
. As tasks exit, their exit status is recorded in the kvs.
. After all tasks have exited, 'wrexecd' daemons synchronize again
  and rank 0 updates the job state to 'completed'.

This simple scheme offers a scalable and semi-flexible method
for launching tasks within a Flux comms session. In conjunction
with the Flux PMI library, even MPI applications may be launched
at scale via 'flux wreckrun'. See xref:wreckrun-examples[] for
examples.


EXAMPLES
--------
[[wreckrun-examples]]

Once a Flux comms session is running, ensure the required modules
for 'wreck' are loaded:

------------------------------
$ flux module list | egrep 'resource|job|wrexec'
resource-hwloc        44673 498403A idle 0
wrexec                42052 2CA4CAT idle 0
job                   28959 60947AA idle 0
$
------------------------------

To ensure wrexec is working properly, run hostname across
4 nodes of the Flux comms session:

------------------------------
$ flux wreckrun -l -N4 hostname
wreckrun: 0.000s: Sending LWJ request for 1 tasks (cmdline "hostname")
wreckrun: 0.007s: Registered jobid 1
wreckrun: Allocating 4 tasks across 4 available nodes..
wreckrun: tasks per node: node[0-3]: 1
wreckrun: 0.009s: Sending run event
wreckrun: 0.012s: State = reserved
wreckrun: 0.020s: State = starting
wreckrun: 0.082s: State = running
0: hype349
2: hype351
3: hype352
1: hype350
wreckrun: 0.140s: State = complete
wreckrun: All tasks completed successfully.
------------------------------

'flux wreckrun' uses the Flux kvs for most of its functionality,
and thus information about lightweight jobs (LWJs) that are
executed will be stored in the 'lwj.<jobid>' directory in the kvs.
To see what kind of information is stored there, use the
'flux kvs' utility:

------------------------------
$ flux kvs dir lwj.1
------------------------------

.Running an MPI application with 'flux wreckrun'

Launching an MPI application with 'flux wreckrun' requires that your
version of MPI supports PMI. In this example, MVAPICH2 is used:

------------------------------
$ mpicc -v 2>&1 | head -1
mpicc for MVAPICH2 version 1.7
$ mpicc -o mpi_hello mpi_hello.c
------------------------------

In order to run using the Flux PMI library, 'LD_LIBRARY_PATH' may need
to be adjusted at runtime. For example, to use Flux's libpmi.so 
from the build directory:

------------------------------
$ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=${flux_builddir}/src/lib/libpmi/.libs${LD_LIBRARY_PATH}
------------------------------

where '${flux_builddir}' is the path to the root of the flux-core
build directory.

Now the MPI application should run via 'flux wreckrun':

------------------------------
$ flux wreckrun -N4 ./mpi_hello
wreckrun: 0.000s: Sending LWJ request for 1 tasks (cmdline "./mpi_hello")      
wreckrun: 0.007s: Registered jobid 5                                           
wreckrun: Allocating 4 tasks across 4 available nodes..                        
wreckrun: tasks per node: node[0-3]: 1                                         
wreckrun: 0.009s: Sending run event                                            
wreckrun: 0.011s: State = reserved                                             
wreckrun: 0.018s: State = starting                                             
wreckrun: 0.028s: State = running                                              
0: completed first barrier                                                     
0: completed MPI_Init in 0.039s.  There are 4 tasks                            
0: completed MPI_Finalize                                                      
wreckrun: 2.182s: State = complete                                             
wreckrun: All tasks completed successfully.                                    
------------------------------

The use of Flux PMI can be verified by checking the KVS 'pmi' directory
for the LWJ in question:

------------------------------
$ flux kvs dir pmi.5                                                         
pmi.5.hostname[2] = "-1463773063"                                              
pmi.5.hostname[0] = "-1463773575"                                              
pmi.5.hostname[1] = "-1463773319"                                              
pmi.5.hostname[3] = "-1463772807"                                              
pmi.5.uuid_2_5 = "dummy-entry"                                                 
pmi.5.uuid_0_5 = "8hiWSLCPRzqFYHNubktbCQ=="                                    
pmi.5.uuid_1_5 = "dummy-entry"                                                 
pmi.5.uuid_3_5 = "dummy-entry"                                                 
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_2 = "1901059"                                                
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_0 = "7209475"                                                
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_1 = "6816259"                                                
pmi.5.pmi_epidkey_3 = "6750723"             
------------------------------


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]


SEE ALSO
--------
flux-wreck(1)
