doc/man1/flux-event.adoc, before:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-EVENT(1)
=============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-event - Send and receive Flux events


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *event* 'COMMAND' ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
Flux events are messages that are broadcast throughout the Flux instance
with publish/subscribe semantics.  Each event message has a _topic string_
and an optional _payload_.

Subscriptions are by topic string.  A subscription topic of length _N_
matches an event if the first _N_ characters of the event topic
are identical to that of the subscription.  For example the event topic
'a.b.c' is matched by the subscription topic 'a.b.c', 'a.b', or 'a'.
A subscription to the empty string matches all events.

COMMANDS
--------
*pub* [-r] [-l] 'topic' ['payload']::
Publish an event with optional payload.  If payload is specified,
it is interpreted as raw if the '-r' option is used, otherwise it is
interpreted as JSON.  If the payload spans multiple arguments,
the arguments are concatenated with one space between them.
If '-l' is specified, subscribe to the published event and wait for
it to be received before exiting.

*sub* '[-c N]' ['topic'] ['topic'...]::
Subscribe to events matching the topic string(s) provided on the
command line.  If none are specified, subscribe to all events.
If '-c N' is specified, print the first 'N' events on stdout and exit;
otherwise continue printing events until a signal is received.
Events are displayed one per line:  the topic string, followed by a tab,
followed by the payload, if any.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]

Commit message:

doc/flux-event(1): describe pub -s, -p options
Add descriptions for
  -s,--synchronous      use event.pub RPC
  -p,--privacy          set message privacy flag

doc/man1/flux-event.adoc, after:

// flux-help-include: true
FLUX-EVENT(1)
=============
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
flux-event - Send and receive Flux events


SYNOPSIS
--------
*flux* *event* 'COMMAND' ['OPTIONS']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
Flux events are messages that are broadcast throughout the Flux instance
with publish/subscribe semantics.  Each event message has a _topic string_
and an optional _payload_.

Subscriptions are by topic string.  A subscription topic of length _N_
matches an event if the first _N_ characters of the event topic
are identical to that of the subscription.  For example the event topic
'a.b.c' is matched by the subscription topic 'a.b.c', 'a.b', or 'a'.
A subscription to the empty string matches all events.

COMMANDS
--------
*pub*  [-r] [-l] [-s] [-p] 'topic' ['payload']::
Publish an event with optional payload.  If payload is specified,
it is interpreted as raw if the '-r' option is used, otherwise it is
interpreted as JSON.  If the payload spans multiple arguments,
the arguments are concatenated with one space between them.
If '-s' is specified, wait for the event's sequence number to be
assigned before exiting.
If '-l' is specified, subscribe to the published event and wait for
it to be received before exiting.  '-p' causes the privacy flag to
be set on the published event.

*sub* '[-c N]' ['topic'] ['topic'...]::
Subscribe to events matching the topic string(s) provided on the
command line.  If none are specified, subscribe to all events.
If '-c N' is specified, print the first 'N' events on stdout and exit;
otherwise continue printing events until a signal is received.
Events are displayed one per line:  the topic string, followed by a tab,
followed by the payload, if any.


AUTHOR
------
This page is maintained by the Flux community.


RESOURCES
---------
Github: <http://github.com/flux-framework>


COPYRIGHT
---------
include::COPYRIGHT.adoc[]
