doc/man1/flux-config.rst, before:

.. flux-help-description: Manage/query Flux configuration

==============
flux-config(1)
==============


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **config** **get** [*--default=VALUE*] [*--type=TYPE*] [*NAME*]
| **flux** **config** **builtin** [*NAME*]
| **flux** **config** **load** [*PATH*]
| **flux** **config** **reload**


DESCRIPTION
===========

The :program:`flux config` manipulates the configuration of the local broker.

COMMANDS
========

get
---

.. program:: flux config get

:program:`flux config get` queries the TOML configuration for a given Flux
broker.  if *NAME* is unspecified, it dumps the entire configuration object.
Otherwise, *NAME* is expected to be a period-delimited path name representing
a TOML key.  Return values are printed in string-encoded JSON form, except for
string values, which are printed without quotes to simplify their use in shell
scripts.

.. option:: -d, --default=VALUE

   Substitute *VALUE* if *NAME* is not set in the configuration, and exit
   with a return code of zero.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Suppress printing of errors if *NAME* is not set and :option:`--default` was
   not specified.  This may be convenient to avoid needing to redirect standard
   error in a shell script.

.. option:: -t, --type=TYPE

   Require that the value has the specified type, or exit with a nonzero exit
   code.  Valid types are *string*, *integer*, *real*, *boolean*, *object*, and
   *array*.  In addition, types of *fsd*, *fsd-integer*, and *fsd-real* ensure
   that a value is a both a string and valid Flux Standard Duration.
   *fsd* prints the value in its human-readable, string form. *fsd-integer*
   and *fsd-real* print the value in integer and real seconds, respectively.

builtin
-------

.. program:: flux config builtin

:program:`flux config builtin` prints compiled-in Flux configuration values.
See `BUILTIN VALUES`_ below for a list of builtin
configuration key names.  This command is available to all users.

.. note::
   :program:`flux config get` and :program:`flux config builtin` refer to
   disjoint key namespaces.  Flux behavior is determined by a combination of
   these values, :man7:`flux-broker-attributes`, and other factors.  This
   disjoint configuration scheme is subject to change in future releases of
   Flux.

.. note::
   :program:`flux config builtin` uses a heuristic to determine if :man1:`flux`
   was run from the flux-core source tree, and substitutes source tree
   specific values if found to be in tree.  This enables Flux testing without
   requiring installation.

.. option:: --intree
   Force :program:`flux config builtin` to return in-tree paths.

.. option:: --installed
   Force :program:`flux config builtin` to return installed paths.

load
----

.. program:: flux config load

:program:`flux config load` replaces the current config with an object read
from standard input (JSON or TOML), or from ``*.toml`` in *PATH*, if specified.

reload
------

.. program:: flux config reload

:program:`flux config reload` tells :man1:`flux-broker` to reload its TOML
configuration after it has been modified.

On Flux instances started with :linux:man1:`systemd`,
:program:`systemctl reload flux` invokes this command.
This command is restricted to the instance owner.

This command does not have an immediate effect in all cases.  For more
information, refer to the :ref:`flux_config_caveats` section of
:man5:`flux-config`.


BUILTIN VALUES
==============

The following configuration keys may be printed with
:program:`flux config builtin`:

**rc1_path**
   The rc1 script path used by :man1:`flux-broker`, unless overridden by
   the ``broker.rc1_path`` broker attribute.

**rc3_path**
   The rc3 script path used by :man1:`flux-broker`, unless overridden by
   the ``broker.rc1_path`` broker attribute.

**shell_path**
   The path to the :man1:`flux-shell` executable used by the exec service.

**shell_pluginpath**
   The search path used by :man1:`flux-shell` to locate plugins, unless
   overridden by setting the ``conf.shell_pluginpath`` broker attribute.

**shell_initrc**
   The initrc script path used by :man1:`flux-shell`, unless overridden by
   setting the ``conf.shell_initrc`` broker attribute.

**jobtap_pluginpath**
   The search path used by the job manager to locate
   :man7:`flux-jobtap-plugins`.

**rundir**
   The configured ``${runstatedir}/flux`` directory.

**lua_cpath_add**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`LUA_CPATH` environment
   variable.

**lua_path_add**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`LUA_PATH` environment
   variable.

**python_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`PYTHONPATH` environment
   variable.

**man_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`MANPATH` environment
   variable.

**exec_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`FLUX_EXEC_PATH`
   environment variable.

**connector_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`FLUX_CONNECTOR_PATH`
   environment variable.

**module_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`FLUX_MODULE_PATH`
   environment variable.

**pmi_library_path**
   Consulted by the :man1:`flux-shell` pmi plugin when setting the
   :envvar:`FLUX_PMI_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable.

**cmdhelp_pattern**
   Used by :man1:`flux` to generate a list of common commands when run without
   arguments.

**no_docs_path**


EXAMPLES
========

::

   $ flux config get --type=fsd-integer tbon.tcp_user_timeout
   60


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_23`


SEE ALSO
========

:man5:`flux-config`

Commit message:

flux-config(1): add --config-path=PATH description
Problem: the flux-config man page does not mention the
--config-path option.

Add it.

doc/man1/flux-config.rst, after:

.. flux-help-description: Manage/query Flux configuration

==============
flux-config(1)
==============


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **config** **get** [*--default=VALUE*] [*--type=TYPE*] [*NAME*]
| **flux** **config** **builtin** [*NAME*]
| **flux** **config** **load** [*PATH*]
| **flux** **config** **reload**


DESCRIPTION
===========

The :program:`flux config` manipulates the configuration of the local broker.

COMMANDS
========

get
---

.. program:: flux config get

:program:`flux config get` queries the TOML configuration for a given Flux
broker.  if *NAME* is unspecified, it dumps the entire configuration object.
Otherwise, *NAME* is expected to be a period-delimited path name representing
a TOML key.  Return values are printed in string-encoded JSON form, except for
string values, which are printed without quotes to simplify their use in shell
scripts.

.. option:: -d, --default=VALUE

   Substitute *VALUE* if *NAME* is not set in the configuration, and exit
   with a return code of zero.

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Suppress printing of errors if *NAME* is not set and :option:`--default` was
   not specified.  This may be convenient to avoid needing to redirect standard
   error in a shell script.

.. option:: -t, --type=TYPE

   Require that the value has the specified type, or exit with a nonzero exit
   code.  Valid types are *string*, *integer*, *real*, *boolean*, *object*, and
   *array*.  In addition, types of *fsd*, *fsd-integer*, and *fsd-real* ensure
   that a value is a both a string and valid Flux Standard Duration.
   *fsd* prints the value in its human-readable, string form. *fsd-integer*
   and *fsd-real* print the value in integer and real seconds, respectively.

.. option:: -c, --config-path=PATH

   Read configuration from PATH instead of fetching configuration from local
   broker.  If PATH is a directory, then read all TOML files from that
   directory. If PATH is a file, then load configuration as JSON if the file
   extension is ``.json``, otherwise load the file as TOML.  As a special case,
   ``system``, ``security``, and ``imp`` may be used as shorthand for the
   compiled-in paths to system configuration objects.


builtin
-------

.. program:: flux config builtin

:program:`flux config builtin` prints compiled-in Flux configuration values.
See `BUILTIN VALUES`_ below for a list of builtin
configuration key names.  This command is available to all users.

.. note::
   :program:`flux config get` and :program:`flux config builtin` refer to
   disjoint key namespaces.  Flux behavior is determined by a combination of
   these values, :man7:`flux-broker-attributes`, and other factors.  This
   disjoint configuration scheme is subject to change in future releases of
   Flux.

.. note::
   :program:`flux config builtin` uses a heuristic to determine if :man1:`flux`
   was run from the flux-core source tree, and substitutes source tree
   specific values if found to be in tree.  This enables Flux testing without
   requiring installation.

.. option:: --intree
   Force :program:`flux config builtin` to return in-tree paths.

.. option:: --installed
   Force :program:`flux config builtin` to return installed paths.

load
----

.. program:: flux config load

:program:`flux config load` replaces the current config with an object read
from standard input (JSON or TOML), or from ``*.toml`` in *PATH*, if specified.

reload
------

.. program:: flux config reload

:program:`flux config reload` tells :man1:`flux-broker` to reload its TOML
configuration after it has been modified.

On Flux instances started with :linux:man1:`systemd`,
:program:`systemctl reload flux` invokes this command.
This command is restricted to the instance owner.

This command does not have an immediate effect in all cases.  For more
information, refer to the :ref:`flux_config_caveats` section of
:man5:`flux-config`.


BUILTIN VALUES
==============

The following configuration keys may be printed with
:program:`flux config builtin`:

**rc1_path**
   The rc1 script path used by :man1:`flux-broker`, unless overridden by
   the ``broker.rc1_path`` broker attribute.

**rc3_path**
   The rc3 script path used by :man1:`flux-broker`, unless overridden by
   the ``broker.rc1_path`` broker attribute.

**shell_path**
   The path to the :man1:`flux-shell` executable used by the exec service.

**shell_pluginpath**
   The search path used by :man1:`flux-shell` to locate plugins, unless
   overridden by setting the ``conf.shell_pluginpath`` broker attribute.

**shell_initrc**
   The initrc script path used by :man1:`flux-shell`, unless overridden by
   setting the ``conf.shell_initrc`` broker attribute.

**jobtap_pluginpath**
   The search path used by the job manager to locate
   :man7:`flux-jobtap-plugins`.

**rundir**
   The configured ``${runstatedir}/flux`` directory.

**lua_cpath_add**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`LUA_CPATH` environment
   variable.

**lua_path_add**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`LUA_PATH` environment
   variable.

**python_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`PYTHONPATH` environment
   variable.

**man_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`MANPATH` environment
   variable.

**exec_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`FLUX_EXEC_PATH`
   environment variable.

**connector_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`FLUX_CONNECTOR_PATH`
   environment variable.

**module_path**
   Consulted by :man1:`flux` when setting the :envvar:`FLUX_MODULE_PATH`
   environment variable.

**pmi_library_path**
   Consulted by the :man1:`flux-shell` pmi plugin when setting the
   :envvar:`FLUX_PMI_LIBRARY_PATH` environment variable.

**cmdhelp_pattern**
   Used by :man1:`flux` to generate a list of common commands when run without
   arguments.

**no_docs_path**


EXAMPLES
========

::

   $ flux config get --type=fsd-integer tbon.tcp_user_timeout
   60


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

:doc:`rfc:spec_23`


SEE ALSO
========

:man5:`flux-config`
