doc/man1/flux-resource.rst, before:

.. flux-help-include: true
.. flux-help-section: instance

================
flux-resource(1)
================


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **resource** **list** [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*] [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]
| **flux** **resource** **info** [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]
| **flux** **resource** **R** [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]

| **flux** **resource** **status** [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*] [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]

| **flux** **resource** **drain** [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]
| **flux** **resource** **drain** [*-f*] [*-u*] [*targets*] [*reason*]
| **flux** **resource** **undrain** [*-f*] *targets* [*reason*]

| **flux** **resource** **reload** [-f] [--xml] *path*

| **flux** **resource** **acquire-mute**
| **flux** **resource** **eventlog** [*-w* *EVENT*] [*-f* *FORMAT*] [*-T* *FORMAT*] [*-L* [*WHEN*]] [*-H*] [*-F*]

DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux resource

:program:`flux resource` lists and manipulates Flux resources.  The resource
inventory is maintained and monitored by the resource service.  The scheduler
acquires a subset of resources from the resource service to allocate to jobs,
and relies on the resource service to inform it of status changes that affect
the usability of resources by jobs as described in RFC 27.

The :program:`flux resource list` subcommand queries the resource module
for the scheduler view of resources, including allocated/free status.

The other :program:`flux resource` subcommands operate on the resource service
and are primarily of interest to system administrators of a Flux system
instance.  For example, they can show whether or not a node is booted, and may
be used to administratively drain and undrain nodes.

A few notes on drained nodes:

- While a node is drained, the scheduler will not allocate it to jobs.
- The act of draining a node does not affect running jobs.
- When an instance is restarted, drained nodes remain drained.
- The scheduler may determine that a job request is *feasible* if the total
  resource set, including drained nodes, would allow it to run.
- In :program:`flux resource status` and :program:`flux resource drain`, the
  drain state of a node will be presented as "drained" if the node has no job
  allocations, and "draining" if there are still jobs running on the node.
- If a node is drained and offline, then "drained*" will be displayed.

Some further background on resource service operation may be found in the
`RESOURCE INVENTORY`_ section below.


COMMANDS
========

list
----

.. program:: flux resource list

Show the scheduler view of resources.

In the scheduler view, excluded resources are always omitted, and
unavailable resources are shown in the "down" state regardless of the
reason (drained, offline, torpid, etc).  Valid states in the scheduler view are:

up
  Available for use.

down
  Unavailable for use.

allocated
  Allocated to jobs.

free
  Not allocated to jobs.

all
  Wildcard matching all resources.

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Restrict displayed resource states to a comma separated list of
  the states listed above.

  If unspecified, :option:`free,allocated,down` is used.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

.. option:: --skip-empty

  Skip lines with empty resource sets in output. This is the default when
  `-i, --include` is used.

.. options:: --no-skip-empty

  Do not skip empty resource sets in output, even with `-i, --include`.

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

  Customize the output format (See the `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ section below).

.. option:: -n, --no-header

  Suppress header from output,

info
----

.. program:: flux resource info

Show a brief, single line summary of scheduler view of resources, for
example::

  8 Nodes, 32 Cores, 0 GPUs

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Limit the output to specified resource states as described above for
  the `list`_ command.

  If unspecified, :option:`all` is used.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

R
-

.. program:: flux resource R

Emit an RFC 20 Resource Set based on the scheduler view of resources.

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Limit the output to specified resource states as described above for
  the `list`_ command.

  If unspecified, :option:`all` is used.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

status
------

.. program:: flux resource status

Show system view of resources.  Valid states in the system view are:

avail
  available for scheduling when up. This includes all nodes that are
  not excluded, drained, or torpid.

exclude
  excluded by configuration

draining
  drained but still allocated

drained
  drained and unallocated

drain
  shorthand for :option:`drained,draining`

allocated
  node is currently allocated to a job or housekeeping

torpid
  node has been unresponsive for a period of time and is temporarily
  unavailable for scheduling

housekeeping
  node is currently running housekeeping

offline
  node has not joined the Flux instance (e.g. turned off or has not
  started the flux broker).

online
  node has joined the Flux instance

:program:`flux resource status` displays a line of output for each set of
resources that share a state and online/offline state.

.. note::
  :program:`flux resource status` queries both the administrative and
  scheduler view of resources to identify resources that are available,
  excluded by configuration, torpid, administratively drained or draining,
  or currently executing housekeeping.

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Restrict the set of resource states a comma-separated list.

  If unspecified, :option:`avail,exclude,draining,drained,torpid,housekeeping`
  is used.


.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

  Customize output formatting.  See the `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ section below for
  details.

.. option:: -n,--no-header

  Suppress header from output,

.. option:: --skip-empty

  Force suppression of empty lines.

  Normally, :program:`flux resource status` skips lines with no resources,
  unless the :option:`-s, --states` option is used.

drain
-----

.. program:: flux resource drain

If specified without *targets*, list the drained nodes. In this mode, the
following options are available:

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

  Customize output formatting.  See the `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ section below for
  details.

.. option:: -n,--no-header

  Suppress header from output,

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

If specified with *targets* (IDSET or HOSTLIST), drain the specified nodes.
Any remaining free arguments are recorded as a reason for the drain event.
By default, :program:`flux resource drain` fails if any of the *targets*
are already drained.

Resources cannot be both excluded and drained, so
:program:`flux resource drain` will also fail if any *targets* are
currently excluded by configuration.  There is no option to force an
excluded node into the drain state.

This command, when run with arguments, is restricted to the Flux instance
owner.

.. option:: -f, --force

  If any of *targets* are already drained, do not fail.  Overwrite the
  original drain reason.  When :option:`--force` is specified twice,
  the original drain timestamp is also overwritten.

.. option:: -u, --update

  If any of *targets* are already drained, do not fail and do not overwrite
  the existing drain reason or timestamp.

undrain
-------

.. program:: flux resource undrain

Undrain the nodes specified by the *targets* argument (IDSET or HOSTLIST).
Any remaining free arguments are recorded as a reason for the undrain event.

This command is restricted to the Flux instance owner.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Do not fail if any of the *targets* are not drained.

reload
------

.. program:: flux resource reload

Reload the resource inventory from *path*.  By default, *path* refers to a
file in RFC 20 format.

This command is primarily used in test.

.. option:: -x, --xml

  Interpret *path* as a directory of hwloc ``<rank>.xml`` files.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Do not fail if resource contain invalid ranks.

acquire-mute
------------

.. program:: flux resource acquire-mute

Tell the resource module to stop sending RFC 28 ``resource.acquire`` responses
to the scheduler.  This is used during Flux instance shutdown to avoid asking
the scheduler to needlessly process OFFLINE updates.

eventlog
--------

.. program:: flux resource eventlog

Watch the resource journal, which is described in RFC 44.

.. option:: -f, --format=FORMAT

  Specify the eventlog output format. Valid choices are *text* (the default)
  or *json*.

.. option:: -T, --time-format=FORMAT

  Specify the timestamp format. Valid choices are *raw* (the default), *iso*,
  *offset*, and *human*.

.. option:: -H, --human

  Display human-readable output. Equivalent to :option:`-T human -f text`.

.. option:: -L, --color[=WHEN]

  Control color output. The optional argument *WHEN* can be one of *auto*,
  *never*, or *always*. If *WHEN* is omitted, it defaults to *always*.
  Otherwise the default is *auto*.

.. option:: -F, --follow

  After printing the current eventlog, wait for new events and print
  them as they arrive.

.. option:: -w, --wait=EVENT

  Wait for the specified event to be posted, print it, then quit.
  The current set of valid events events is *restart*, *resource-define*,
  *online*, *offline*, *drain*, *undrain*, *torpid*, and *lively*.

OUTPUT FORMAT
=============

The :option:`--format` option can be used to specify an output format using
Python's string format syntax or a defined format by name. For a list of
built-in and configured formats use :option:`-o help`.  An alternate default
format can be set via the :envvar:`FLUX_RESOURCE_STATUS_FORMAT_DEFAULT`,
:envvar:`FLUX_RESOURCE_DRAIN_FORMAT_DEFAULT`, and
:envvar:`FLUX_RESOURCE_LIST_FORMAT_DEFAULT` environment variables (for
:program:`flux resource status`, :program:`flux resource drain`, and
:program:`flux resource list` respectively).  A configuration snippet for an
existing named format may be generated with :option:`--format=get-config=NAME`.
See :man1:`flux-jobs` :ref:`flux_jobs_output_format` section for a detailed
description of this syntax.

Resources are combined into a single line of output when possible depending on
the supplied output format.  Resource counts are not included in the
determination of uniqueness.  Therefore, certain output formats will alter the
number of lines of output.  For example:

::

   $ flux resource list -no {nnodes}

Would simply output a single of output containing the total number of nodes.
The actual state of the nodes would not matter in the output.

The following field names can be specified for the **status** and **drain**
subcommands:

**state**
   State of node(s): "avail", "exclude", "drain", "draining", "drained",
   "torpid", "allocated". If the set of resources is offline, an asterisk
   suffix is appended to the state, e.g. "avail*".

**statex**
   Like **state**, but exclude the asterisk for offline resources.

**status**
   Current online/offline status of nodes(s): "online", "offline"

**up**
   Displays a *✔* if the node is online, or *✗* if offline. An ascii *y*
   or *n* may be used instead with **up.ascii**.

**nnodes**
   number of nodes

**ranks**
   ranks of nodes

**nodelist**
   node names

**timestamp**
   If node(s) in drain/draining/drained state, timestamp of node(s)
   set to drain.

**reason**
   If node(s) in drain/draining/drained state, reason node(s) set to
   drain.

The following field names can be specified for the **list** subcommand:

**state**
   State of node(s): "up", "down", "allocated", "free", "all"

**queue**
   queue(s) associated with resources.

**properties**
   Properties associated with resources.

**propertiesx**
   Properties associated with resources, but with queue names removed.

**nnodes**
   number of nodes

**ncores**
   number of cores

**ngpus**
   number of gpus

**ranks**
   ranks of nodes

**nodelist**
   node names

**rlist**
   Short form string of all resources.


CONFIGURATION
=============

Similar to :man1:`flux-jobs`, the :program:`flux resource` command supports
loading a set of config files for customizing utility output formats. Currently
this can be used to register named format strings for the ``status``,
``list``, and ``drain`` subcommands.

Configuration for each :program:`flux resource` subcommand is defined in a
separate table, so to add a new format ``myformat`` for ``flux resource list``,
the following config file could be used::

  # $HOME/.config/flux/flux-resource.toml
  [list.formats.myformat]
  description = "My flux resource list format"
  format = "{state} {nodelist}"

See :man1:`flux-jobs` :ref:`flux_jobs_configuration` section for more
information about the order of precedence for loading these config files.

RESOURCE INVENTORY
==================

The Flux instance's inventory of resources is managed by the resource service,
which determines the set of available resources through one of three
mechanisms:

configuration
   Resources are read from a config file in RFC 20 (R version 1) format.
   This mechanism is typically used in a system instance of Flux.

enclosing instance
   Resources are assigned by the enclosing Flux instance.  The assigned
   resources are read from the job's ``R`` key in the enclosing instance KVS.

dynamic discovery
   Resources are aggregated from the set of resources reported by hwloc
   on each broker.

Once the inventory has been determined, it is stored the KVS ``resource.R``
key, in RFC 20 (R version 1) format.

Events that affect the availability of resources and should persist across
a Flux restart are posted to the KVS *resource.eventlog*.  Such events include:

resource-define
   The instance resource set is known (posted each time the resource module
   is loaded).

drain
   One or more nodes are administratively removed from scheduling.

undrain
   One or more nodes are no longer drained.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

| :doc:`rfc:spec_20`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_22`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_27`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_29`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_44`

Commit message:

doc: document `flux resource eventlog --include`
Problem: flux-resource(1) does not document the `-i, --include`
option.

Document it.

doc/man1/flux-resource.rst, after:

.. flux-help-include: true
.. flux-help-section: instance

================
flux-resource(1)
================


SYNOPSIS
========

| **flux** **resource** **list** [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*] [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]
| **flux** **resource** **info** [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]
| **flux** **resource** **R** [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]

| **flux** **resource** **status** [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*] [*-s* *STATES*] [*-q* *QUEUE*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]

| **flux** **resource** **drain** [*-n*] [*-o* *FORMAT*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]
| **flux** **resource** **drain** [*-f*] [*-u*] [*targets*] [*reason*]
| **flux** **resource** **undrain** [*-f*] *targets* [*reason*]

| **flux** **resource** **reload** [-f] [--xml] *path*

| **flux** **resource** **acquire-mute**
| **flux** **resource** **eventlog** [*-w* *EVENT*] [*-f* *FORMAT*] [*-T* *FORMAT*] [*-L* [*WHEN*]] [*-H*] [*-F*] [*-i* *TARGETS*]

DESCRIPTION
===========

.. program:: flux resource

:program:`flux resource` lists and manipulates Flux resources.  The resource
inventory is maintained and monitored by the resource service.  The scheduler
acquires a subset of resources from the resource service to allocate to jobs,
and relies on the resource service to inform it of status changes that affect
the usability of resources by jobs as described in RFC 27.

The :program:`flux resource list` subcommand queries the resource module
for the scheduler view of resources, including allocated/free status.

The other :program:`flux resource` subcommands operate on the resource service
and are primarily of interest to system administrators of a Flux system
instance.  For example, they can show whether or not a node is booted, and may
be used to administratively drain and undrain nodes.

A few notes on drained nodes:

- While a node is drained, the scheduler will not allocate it to jobs.
- The act of draining a node does not affect running jobs.
- When an instance is restarted, drained nodes remain drained.
- The scheduler may determine that a job request is *feasible* if the total
  resource set, including drained nodes, would allow it to run.
- In :program:`flux resource status` and :program:`flux resource drain`, the
  drain state of a node will be presented as "drained" if the node has no job
  allocations, and "draining" if there are still jobs running on the node.
- If a node is drained and offline, then "drained*" will be displayed.

Some further background on resource service operation may be found in the
`RESOURCE INVENTORY`_ section below.


COMMANDS
========

list
----

.. program:: flux resource list

Show the scheduler view of resources.

In the scheduler view, excluded resources are always omitted, and
unavailable resources are shown in the "down" state regardless of the
reason (drained, offline, torpid, etc).  Valid states in the scheduler view are:

up
  Available for use.

down
  Unavailable for use.

allocated
  Allocated to jobs.

free
  Not allocated to jobs.

all
  Wildcard matching all resources.

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Restrict displayed resource states to a comma separated list of
  the states listed above.

  If unspecified, :option:`free,allocated,down` is used.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

.. option:: --skip-empty

  Skip lines with empty resource sets in output. This is the default when
  `-i, --include` is used.

.. options:: --no-skip-empty

  Do not skip empty resource sets in output, even with `-i, --include`.

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

  Customize the output format (See the `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ section below).

.. option:: -n, --no-header

  Suppress header from output,

info
----

.. program:: flux resource info

Show a brief, single line summary of scheduler view of resources, for
example::

  8 Nodes, 32 Cores, 0 GPUs

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Limit the output to specified resource states as described above for
  the `list`_ command.

  If unspecified, :option:`all` is used.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

R
-

.. program:: flux resource R

Emit an RFC 20 Resource Set based on the scheduler view of resources.

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Limit the output to specified resource states as described above for
  the `list`_ command.

  If unspecified, :option:`all` is used.

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

status
------

.. program:: flux resource status

Show system view of resources.  Valid states in the system view are:

avail
  available for scheduling when up. This includes all nodes that are
  not excluded, drained, or torpid.

exclude
  excluded by configuration

draining
  drained but still allocated

drained
  drained and unallocated

drain
  shorthand for :option:`drained,draining`

allocated
  node is currently allocated to a job or housekeeping

torpid
  node has been unresponsive for a period of time and is temporarily
  unavailable for scheduling

housekeeping
  node is currently running housekeeping

offline
  node has not joined the Flux instance (e.g. turned off or has not
  started the flux broker).

online
  node has joined the Flux instance

:program:`flux resource status` displays a line of output for each set of
resources that share a state and online/offline state.

.. note::
  :program:`flux resource status` queries both the administrative and
  scheduler view of resources to identify resources that are available,
  excluded by configuration, torpid, administratively drained or draining,
  or currently executing housekeeping.

.. option:: -s, --states=STATE,...

  Restrict the set of resource states a comma-separated list.

  If unspecified, :option:`avail,exclude,draining,drained,torpid,housekeeping`
  is used.


.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

  Customize output formatting.  See the `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ section below for
  details.

.. option:: -n,--no-header

  Suppress header from output,

.. option:: --skip-empty

  Force suppression of empty lines.

  Normally, :program:`flux resource status` skips lines with no resources,
  unless the :option:`-s, --states` option is used.

drain
-----

.. program:: flux resource drain

If specified without *targets*, list the drained nodes. In this mode, the
following options are available:

.. option:: -o, --format=FORMAT

  Customize output formatting.  See the `OUTPUT FORMAT`_ section below for
  details.

.. option:: -n,--no-header

  Suppress header from output,

.. option:: -q, --queue=QUEUE,...

  Filter results to only include resources in the specified *QUEUE*. Multiple
  queues may be separated by a comma.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter results to only include resources matching *TARGETS*, which may be
  specified either as an idset of broker ranks or list of hosts or nodes in
  hostlist form. It is not an error to specify ranks, nodes, or hosts which
  do not exist.

If specified with *targets* (IDSET or HOSTLIST), drain the specified nodes.
Any remaining free arguments are recorded as a reason for the drain event.
By default, :program:`flux resource drain` fails if any of the *targets*
are already drained.

Resources cannot be both excluded and drained, so
:program:`flux resource drain` will also fail if any *targets* are
currently excluded by configuration.  There is no option to force an
excluded node into the drain state.

This command, when run with arguments, is restricted to the Flux instance
owner.

.. option:: -f, --force

  If any of *targets* are already drained, do not fail.  Overwrite the
  original drain reason.  When :option:`--force` is specified twice,
  the original drain timestamp is also overwritten.

.. option:: -u, --update

  If any of *targets* are already drained, do not fail and do not overwrite
  the existing drain reason or timestamp.

undrain
-------

.. program:: flux resource undrain

Undrain the nodes specified by the *targets* argument (IDSET or HOSTLIST).
Any remaining free arguments are recorded as a reason for the undrain event.

This command is restricted to the Flux instance owner.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Do not fail if any of the *targets* are not drained.

reload
------

.. program:: flux resource reload

Reload the resource inventory from *path*.  By default, *path* refers to a
file in RFC 20 format.

This command is primarily used in test.

.. option:: -x, --xml

  Interpret *path* as a directory of hwloc ``<rank>.xml`` files.

.. option:: -f, --force

  Do not fail if resource contain invalid ranks.

acquire-mute
------------

.. program:: flux resource acquire-mute

Tell the resource module to stop sending RFC 28 ``resource.acquire`` responses
to the scheduler.  This is used during Flux instance shutdown to avoid asking
the scheduler to needlessly process OFFLINE updates.

eventlog
--------

.. program:: flux resource eventlog

Watch the resource journal, which is described in RFC 44.

.. option:: -f, --format=FORMAT

  Specify the eventlog output format. Valid choices are *text* (the default)
  or *json*.

.. option:: -T, --time-format=FORMAT

  Specify the timestamp format. Valid choices are *raw* (the default), *iso*,
  *offset*, and *human*.

.. option:: -H, --human

  Display human-readable output. Equivalent to :option:`-T human -f text`.

.. option:: -L, --color[=WHEN]

  Control color output. The optional argument *WHEN* can be one of *auto*,
  *never*, or *always*. If *WHEN* is omitted, it defaults to *always*.
  Otherwise the default is *auto*.

.. option:: -F, --follow

  After printing the current eventlog, wait for new events and print
  them as they arrive.

.. option:: -w, --wait=EVENT

  Wait for the specified event to be posted, print it, then quit.
  The current set of valid events events is *restart*, *resource-define*,
  *online*, *offline*, *drain*, *undrain*, *torpid*, and *lively*.

.. option:: -i, --include=TARGETS

  Filter events to only include those that apply to  *TARGETS*, which is
  normally one or more hostnames in RFC 29 hostlist form. TARGETS can also
  be broker ranks in RFC 22 idset form, useful mainly in test.

OUTPUT FORMAT
=============

The :option:`--format` option can be used to specify an output format using
Python's string format syntax or a defined format by name. For a list of
built-in and configured formats use :option:`-o help`.  An alternate default
format can be set via the :envvar:`FLUX_RESOURCE_STATUS_FORMAT_DEFAULT`,
:envvar:`FLUX_RESOURCE_DRAIN_FORMAT_DEFAULT`, and
:envvar:`FLUX_RESOURCE_LIST_FORMAT_DEFAULT` environment variables (for
:program:`flux resource status`, :program:`flux resource drain`, and
:program:`flux resource list` respectively).  A configuration snippet for an
existing named format may be generated with :option:`--format=get-config=NAME`.
See :man1:`flux-jobs` :ref:`flux_jobs_output_format` section for a detailed
description of this syntax.

Resources are combined into a single line of output when possible depending on
the supplied output format.  Resource counts are not included in the
determination of uniqueness.  Therefore, certain output formats will alter the
number of lines of output.  For example:

::

   $ flux resource list -no {nnodes}

Would simply output a single of output containing the total number of nodes.
The actual state of the nodes would not matter in the output.

The following field names can be specified for the **status** and **drain**
subcommands:

**state**
   State of node(s): "avail", "exclude", "drain", "draining", "drained",
   "torpid", "allocated". If the set of resources is offline, an asterisk
   suffix is appended to the state, e.g. "avail*".

**statex**
   Like **state**, but exclude the asterisk for offline resources.

**status**
   Current online/offline status of nodes(s): "online", "offline"

**up**
   Displays a *✔* if the node is online, or *✗* if offline. An ascii *y*
   or *n* may be used instead with **up.ascii**.

**nnodes**
   number of nodes

**ranks**
   ranks of nodes

**nodelist**
   node names

**timestamp**
   If node(s) in drain/draining/drained state, timestamp of node(s)
   set to drain.

**reason**
   If node(s) in drain/draining/drained state, reason node(s) set to
   drain.

The following field names can be specified for the **list** subcommand:

**state**
   State of node(s): "up", "down", "allocated", "free", "all"

**queue**
   queue(s) associated with resources.

**properties**
   Properties associated with resources.

**propertiesx**
   Properties associated with resources, but with queue names removed.

**nnodes**
   number of nodes

**ncores**
   number of cores

**ngpus**
   number of gpus

**ranks**
   ranks of nodes

**nodelist**
   node names

**rlist**
   Short form string of all resources.


CONFIGURATION
=============

Similar to :man1:`flux-jobs`, the :program:`flux resource` command supports
loading a set of config files for customizing utility output formats. Currently
this can be used to register named format strings for the ``status``,
``list``, and ``drain`` subcommands.

Configuration for each :program:`flux resource` subcommand is defined in a
separate table, so to add a new format ``myformat`` for ``flux resource list``,
the following config file could be used::

  # $HOME/.config/flux/flux-resource.toml
  [list.formats.myformat]
  description = "My flux resource list format"
  format = "{state} {nodelist}"

See :man1:`flux-jobs` :ref:`flux_jobs_configuration` section for more
information about the order of precedence for loading these config files.

RESOURCE INVENTORY
==================

The Flux instance's inventory of resources is managed by the resource service,
which determines the set of available resources through one of three
mechanisms:

configuration
   Resources are read from a config file in RFC 20 (R version 1) format.
   This mechanism is typically used in a system instance of Flux.

enclosing instance
   Resources are assigned by the enclosing Flux instance.  The assigned
   resources are read from the job's ``R`` key in the enclosing instance KVS.

dynamic discovery
   Resources are aggregated from the set of resources reported by hwloc
   on each broker.

Once the inventory has been determined, it is stored the KVS ``resource.R``
key, in RFC 20 (R version 1) format.

Events that affect the availability of resources and should persist across
a Flux restart are posted to the KVS *resource.eventlog*.  Such events include:

resource-define
   The instance resource set is known (posted each time the resource module
   is loaded).

drain
   One or more nodes are administratively removed from scheduling.

undrain
   One or more nodes are no longer drained.


RESOURCES
=========

.. include:: common/resources.rst


FLUX RFC
========

| :doc:`rfc:spec_20`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_22`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_27`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_29`
| :doc:`rfc:spec_44`
